I'm just sharing a link for the last
notebook.
It is the same Langfuse project but I
have
done a few enhancements on that.
Okay.
>> Sir, can you share the observative file
that we that was shown yesterday? It was
showing some error in the
>> HTML file.
>> Huh? Observative. that HTML file will
not directly open. One has to download
and that will open. I don't know how to
open.
>> So once you have to download it will
only open in the local uh it will not be
visible in the platform. You have to
first download it. Anyone who had
downloaded this properly
and tried to open it, it was opening
right Sri Khant that's the right way of
doing that it's HTML file so
>> yeah it's working uh Prashant after
downloading just open with browser or
direct click also so you have to
download double click and it's a regular
HTML file it will open in the browser
Okay,
cool. Fine then. So I think we are good
to go.
>> Any other question?
>> Yeah, Prashant, I have a question. uh
like I know like we are following the
labs and we are just like understanding
the what are the labs we are able to do
uh thanks for that but is there any
websites or something we can follow and
see solve some questions like I know
it's not like realtime experience we we
don't have I don't have
>> yeah so that way when we jump onto a
project we might come across into
hurdles are right to get into some
exposure kind of thing that would be
helpful Okay.
>> Let me think. So questions you mentioned
what kind of questions?
>> No, no, no. What I mean to say is I know
like uh these are like we are going
through the labs getting into the
exposure and the basic knowledge we are
getting but when we go to the real
picture like real projects
>> Mhm. At the time we might I might get
struck up or like because we not like
end up like we don't know the real
picture right right now
how things will work out it because we
don't know the real problems how to
approach and all because you are
explaining the examples of it and we are
just going through the p HTMLs and
everything but we don't know the real
picture of it how things will work out.
My question is like uh is there any
website where we can go like a
freelancer kind of thing to look at look
look at join those websites all those
look at those problems solve those
problems kind of the is there any
website we can
um
okay see one suggestion that I can give
is uh maybe once you download the entire
curriculum and what all uh you have
learned let's say try to summarize that
in maybe one markdown file
>> and give that markdown file uh that okay
this is the course that I have uh gone
through this contains these eight nine
modules and these are the topics that I
have learned these are the labs that has
been done maybe uh Karthik and team will
be able to give you this consolidated
markdown file Karthik will you be able
to do this
>> yes
>> okay one file
a markdown file. I don't want a excel
sheet or a word document. A markdown
file in which the curriculum is
mentioned. What all modules are there?
What all labs we did complete with
today's the last session. So, uh updated
till today, right? A single markdown
file. Perfect. Now, as a good activity,
what you do is give this markdown file
to maybe chat GPT, Germany, claude,
whatever is your favorite model. say
that okay this is what we have learned
these are the labs that I have performed
okay and uh most of the lab codes
provide this entire context lab codes
99% or 95% were already you know
provided to us by the instructor but I
have a thorough understanding of the
codes what these codes do and what they
perform okay but uh now I want to apply
this learning into some new scenarios
new projects. So can you suggest me
three to four projects where I can go
ahead and apply? So get some project
suggestions end to end and then you try
to solve those scenarios. Okay. So now
there are two approaches to solve those
scenarios. One
is uh if you just ask for the projects,
you will still be you know venturing
into uh unknown lands and you are still
going to be very much uh uh you can say
in a difficult situation.
>> Yeah, this is the simple scenario. So
what is a better way of doing? So when
you are asking for the projects the
trick is okay also ask about hints about
the right design patterns. Okay you may
always counter it but which all labs
which can be uh lab uh notebooks can be
repurposed number one which all lab
notebooks can be repurposed or which all
design patterns can be used okay in
those. So if you can you know uh ask the
model to give you some of the hints okay
then you are not starting blank you are
not starting from scratch okay you have
the project objectives you have the
deliverables what it means and you have
some starting point
>> okay so you repurpose those notebooks
into a different project that is the
easiest and the best thing to start to
get more confidence on any of the
learnings always okay so or I would
strongly suggest to do this as a
standalone activity also. You don't even
have to go to this entire uh
>> exercise by uploading the entire
curriculum. Even that I would do at a
later stage after a month or so. Okay.
What I would normally do is most of the
projects uh notebooks which are end to
end just upload that Jupyter notebook
into claude or Germany say that this is
the end toend notebook which uh talks
about an end to end project and one
design pattern has been implemented.
Okay. Now give me another project which
implements the same design pattern.
Okay. And I want to do it on my own.
Give me uh the step-by-step
implementation guidelines. So now you
know the steps, now you know the design
pattern and you have some codes to start
with. All you have to do is copy paste
those codes, keep changing the variable
names as per the new project uh
requirements. Okay. And uh since the
design pattern is well known, you will
be able to also replicate your langraph
graph or CVI whatever that is. Okay. And
try to adapt it. spend a day two three
four maybe max to max a week and then
once you are almost 80 90% through it
and every time when you have completed
some milestones okay also ask the
uh model to give you some milestones and
after each of the milestones that you
have implemented upload it and ask the
model to you know verify whether you
have you know done it correctly or ask
for suggestions okay so in that notebook
the outputs will be all clearly printed
Right. So model will go through it.
Okay. See that okay it is following the
steps properly guidelines properly. The
architecture pattern has been
implemented and then so let's say the
entire new project has been divided into
four parts or four milestones. Okay. So
after each part that you have
implemented okay upload it and ask for
the model to review it. So this way you
can actually make your learning better
and this activity you do it for all the
seven eight projects end to end that we
have done. Okay. So one project one week
and that should uh be really good enough
to give you a high level of confidence
that you can actually do it because
simply you know running the codes is
good for people who just want to have a
idea about the domain. They want to have
an idea about what these agents are,
agentic architectures, the kind of use
cases. But for builders and coders,
okay, this is still not going to be
enough. Now you have to go on a co-pilot
and autonomous mode. You have to now
help yourselves. Okay, now you know the
codes. Now you know the design patterns.
You know, you already have validated
codes with you. You are not asking for
codes from charg
codes 99.9% will never work and they
will be outdated. Why? Because the model
has been trained 6 months ago and many
of these uh you know modules are also
getting deprecated dependency issues and
every other nonsense you will get it.
Okay. So for each lab notebook I have
done an effort of at least 10 to 15
hours or maybe in some cases 20 hours.
Okay. That is the amount of effort which
has gone into creating each and every
lab notebook. Trust me. Okay. And that
has gone several rounds of revisions.
Now that we have proper validated codes,
proper validated, you know, design
patterns and proper use cases for each
of them, all you have to do is just
scale it up. Okay? Ask for alternative
projects, ask for the steps, ask for the
phases in which those steps are going to
be implemented. Okay? and the uh pass
fail criteria for each of the phase that
this is exactly what I should be able to
deliver otherwise it's a fail so pass
fail for each phase see these are the
prompts the way you ask is most
important a knife is upload a jupyter
notebook and give me project suggestions
this is a kn
prompt this itself will give you the
most nonsense output that you will be
never be able to you know uh help
yourself. But what did I say? You have
to provide the full context. Okay, full
context is this is the Jupyter notebook
as a part of learning the uh course that
I did. Okay, and I understand this code
notebook implementation and the project.
Well, now I want to implement the same
architecture uh in a different use case
or scenario. So I want you to give me a
different use case scenario or a project
end to end with steps uh divided into
three to four phases and for each phase
give me a uh you know uh pass fail
criteria. So after each phase I will
upload my Jupyter notebook. You have to
evaluate and give me a feedback. Okay.
Uh so that I can improvise improve
whatever. Now this is the complete
prompt that you should provide. And then
you see the kind of suggestions that you
will get with proper steps with proper
phases with proper pass fill criteras
and so on. And the same activity now
repeat for all the other projects. Take
one end to end project every week. So
you are mastering your design patterns
this way, right?
>> Yeah. Thank you. Thanks.
>> What do you mean by phases? Is it block
of no phases means let's say the entire
project execution is in 10 phases. let's
say uh sorry 10 steps. The first step
could be as simple as setting up uh your
Jupyter notebook or whatever let's say
the installation setting up the API key
uh open AI client and importing your
client. This itself could be the phase
one I don't know what the model decides.
So once you are done with these four
steps that is importing all the required
libraries uh you know setting up your
API keys importing the keys setting up
your LLM okay that itself and the
outputs of each of those are clearly
printed in your Jupyter notebook upload
that Jupyter notebook so this itself is
a phase one so first four steps phase
one then next two steps or three steps
phase two so logical phases it will uh
you know uh ask so in one of the phases
you are defining let's say the node
functions and in the phase you are
defining the entire graph and the last
phase you are defining your wrapper
function and actually executing your
entire project. Okay, this way I'm just
giving you the phases basically. Okay,
or in one phase you are defining all the
tools which you are going to use within
these agents. Okay.
So each phase has its logical uh
deliverable you can say and uh you also
test those deliverables. That is the um
main thing. Okay. And this is how you
would also do the development when you
are using cursor or uh whatever
>> ID you are using
>> VS code
>> VS code or whatever. Yes. Wind surf and
so on. Because people will you know give
a blank prompt. Okay. This is a project
I want to code. Help me.
So this is completely useless. It will
maybe quite possible it will be able to
build end to end but then you have no
idea what has been done, what steps has
been taken, what phases, what milestones
and you have never tested your code ever
because you have never looked at the
codes ever. But when you are doing the
development step by step when you are
doing the development phase by phase and
you are manually testing those phases
whether each step works doesn't work
error messages go back and forth and
resolve then you are a part of the
entire cycle you are part of the entire
development process okay you will feel
inclusive and then only you will feel
empowered and confident right that you
were entire development process
>> I am used to working on Google collab
and It's easy because the there like we
have block of code
>> but when it comes to uh VS code like
it's hard to debug like I don't know how
they do it
>> because it's not that flexible or like
to debug the programs
what do you suggest how do we learn that
>> no so I would only give a simple
suggestion VS code is not for learning
that is for production level deployment
ment code. Okay. So when you have
reached a pro level that you have
understood the concepts, the
architectures, the design patterns, the
codes, the nuances, everything quite
well, then you graduate to the
deployment. Okay, graduate to a
production level code. 99% of the
scenarios the production guys will be
different than the development guys.
Okay, we are learning to become
developers first. Once you are in your
developer role for at least a year or
two, you have a huge confidence on all
your codes, patterns, frameworks,
errors, then you graduate to a prod
code. Okay? So those are the guys who
will write down you probably join a new
job and they will never ask you to write
down a production code. I mean that is
highly unlikely. That's not even a
realistic expectation frankly.
>> So if you're asking this question, this
is the simplest answer. Okay. So the
guys who are actually using VS code they
are familiar they know their
responsibilities they know their
expectations so they will never ask this
question that I cannot use a VS code
>> so this case would be like we do our
project in collab see it's running fine
then everything is there
>> past it over to vital vs code then I
think it will run right
>> no so if you want to port your uh
Jupyter notebook into a VS code Same
thing open your VS code or maybe a
cursor or something. Okay. And then the
first thing that you do is upload your
Jupyter notebook there and say that okay
this is a Jupyter notebook with end to
end project. Now I want to make it a
production grade uh
project let's say. So first give me
>> the project outline uh sorry um what is
that called? Scaffold. Okay that is
called as project scaffold. In the
project scaffold, the proper
organization of the files and the
folders are present. So for example,
where will you keep your environment
file? Where will you keep your
configuration file? Where will you keep
your markdown files, documentations,
test files, source files, agent files,
uh config files, everything. Okay. So
that is called as project scaffold. So
first you ask for the project scaffold.
Okay. That is a project uh organization
folder. That's it. So first step is ask
for that review it okay is that
something which is making sense once you
are comfortable because it may happen
that it may give you too many folders or
too many you know file types because one
file now it is going to break down into
10 15 files if it is breaking more than
10 files that's a red flag at least for
the learners beginners so ideally it
shouldn't be you know breaking a single
Jupyter notebook into 20 25 files you
will be lost in that entire maze of so
many files okay So make it manageable
then in the subsequent prompt I don't
want this project to break in more than
seven to eight python files the the
other
you know docker compose file might be
there environment file will be therev
git ignore file would be there you know
cursor ignore file would be there yl
file would be there so you are not
counting those files you are only
counting the python files okay so
make it specific that when you are
breaking this entire uh Jupyter notebook
or collab notebook into your Python
project structure. It shouldn't be more
than five to seven uh Python files.
Okay. So this way you are in a much
safer position and then ask for the
suggestions how it is you know going to
plan to do that. This planning should be
done using the best possible model. So
if you are not using winds for cursor
okay with the best possible model. So
for example now the best possible model
is OPUS in the thinking mode opus 4.6
If you don't have access to that, go to
clot uh uh you know
web- based uh chat. Okay, if you have
access to claude pro there also you can
do the same activity. Go to maybe it's
very simple. Okay. So I would not do
that right now but go to again
>> chat mode or chat interface of the uh
you know cloud pro
access whatever is the best model that
you have or go to Germany 3.1 pro
whatever it is or if you're using chat
GPT plus then go for GPT 5.2 uh model.
So take one of these three best models
from three platforms. Okay. I would
strongly suggest that you have at least
one pro uh model access uh henceforth.
Okay, you have already invested
thousands of dollars in your learning.
This additional $20 is really going to
take you to the next level. Okay,
so take one of best model while doing
this architecture level uh discussions
or brainstorming. Okay, you're not even
asking for the code right away. You are
just brainstorming how this project can
be uh scaffolded or how this project can
be organized and once you have got all
the decisions uh discussions then take
that project folder structure copy paste
that folder structure into your VS code
and then try to replicate it or even
then you can ask the model to give each
of these files one by one okay and also
ask the model how can I test that this
file is actually working.
So now the model will give you the codes
for each of these files. So for example,
all the agents can be created in one.
How do you test your agents? Or all the
API endpoints can be created in one
file. How do you test your API agents uh
endpoints? Okay. So or all the document
processing code be in one file. Let's
say processor.py file something like
that or preprocessor.py file. So how do
you test it? So every time insist on
this treatment. Okay. So give one by one
uh python file and also give me how will
I test that file is working. Okay. So
ask for that uh specially so it might
give you an additional test file. So
like test processor uh py file which
will be additional few lines of code to
test that your processor pi is actually
working or you test it in the command
line. So getting used to the command
line is the new thing. Right now we are
all used to what collab okay so that
transition is not going to be all of a
sudden that is going to take some time
that will make you uncomfortable during
that entire transition period but that's
the thing okay unless you are not
thorough with the collab notebook codes
uh there's no point in going to VS code
frankly because they that it will I mean
it's only going to you know torture you
more that will all be Greek and Dutch
otherwise. Okay. So, you know, I would
say advance step by step. Okay. Do not
unnecessarily
uh torture yourself by using VS code
from day one, I would say. Okay. So,
please be comfortable with what codes we
have in Jupyter notebooks or collab
notebooks. First, try to replicate.
Second step, replicate it for another
project. And then once you have
replicated it safely for another project
that means you are now
reached a level where you can create
another project from scratch.
Okay.
So you have graduated the builder level
now or developer level. Now you have to
advance to the production coder. Okay.
That is where your VS code is. No
production code is ever written on
collab or Jupyter notebook. That is all
VS code. But VS code cannot start from
day one. I mean
okay. U so that is the general
suggestions. I think this will really
help everyone. Okay.
Uh Sur uh is saying I am using the same
process with claude pro with a detailed
requirement prompt uh with visual studio
code login and I am able to make it work
in loc also. Perfect. You see using
terminal commands is a key in the
visual. So terminal commands uh has to
be there. I mean you will have to get
comfortable sooner or later. Okay. If
you are
looking for VS code and master the
markdown files and the requirement
correct. So every time you are looking
for an explanation ask the model to give
that explanation in the markdown file
like uh maybe architecture.m MD or
readme.md requirement.txt txt. Okay, so
these are the correct files. Okay, so
ask don't ask the model to give an
explanation on the screen or the chat
window because there you will only do a
copy paste. Don't do that. Okay, ask the
model to generate all the explanations
and document it as a markdown file which
you can actually save it in your project
folder. Advantage of doing that is your
cursor ID or VS code ID will also be
able to access that explanations or
documentation and you will also be able
to see that documentation nicely
formatted at any later stage. You don't
have to every time scroll up where that
explanation was which chat window that
is copy pasted gone. I mean that's not
the right way. Okay. So whenever you are
asking the model to uh explain something
ask it to document that explanation as a
markdown file. Is that making sense?
Okay.
Okay. So let's go ahead and finish uh
the remaining topic which is on model
context protocol. But before I jump into
that, okay,
there is one
I think Tim had suggested that we do
simulate
a bottleneck and go for the tracing.
Okay. So that I tried and uh it has
worked well.
I'm just sharing that file over the chat
somehow.
So everyone should thank him. Okay. So I
always you know appreciate and take
reasonable
requirements during the sessions. So
okay,
I've shared this notebook in the chat.
So I'm just sharing my screen. It is all
completely running piece of code. Okay.
Uh we may not run it line by line, but
you can trust my outputs. Okay.
Yes, I did created a delay using time
dos sleep.
Plus, there are a couple of redundant
API calls also. Okay,
let me know if my screen is visible.
Yeah.
Okay. So first thing I'll go on mute for
next uh 10 minutes because this is all
the same done and discussed. I want you
guys to follow until this point. Okay,
this is where the new thing starts. So
till that execute all your codes reach
to that point I have already discussed
everything. Uh test the customer
workflow you can take your time if you
are actually running it. If even if you
don't want to run it, the codes are
there. You go it at your own pace.
Understand. Let me know if there are
questions in the chat. Okay? I am here
very much to answer. But I want you to
follow at your own pace because I have
done it already at my pace and
everything viewing the logs and
everything.
Okay. So, this is all done. So I want
everyone to actually view your lang fuse
dashboard and make sure that you are
able to see all of these traces okay
till this point so all the recent traces
this is all we did yesterday so this is
the only point which is new for today
okay so I'll wait here for next 10
minutes by the time you come and reach
and let me know if you have any
questions. So this is all done. I mean
there's nothing new for me to explain.
This was deliberately done to
see
the logs when there would be
some issues or you know
I'll be creating some delays
troubleshooting and those things. Yeah.
Done.
Yes. Any questions still here?
Hello. Am I audible?
books.
>> Yes, Prashant. What we supposed to do in
uh Langfuse? Uh are we supposed to
create a new project?
>> No. No. So, what I had asked is you have
to reach until that point uh number 17
by executing all the codes and uh get to
that point number 17.
>> Got it. So have you reached uh
and then you also have to check the
traces.
So you able to create a project and uh
look into the traces.
So these are the traces that we have
got.
All good till here. That was I was
expecting that you would actually
execute and look into your traces.
Okay. So now let's see um business
scenario. Your customer support agent is
deployed in production at a Indian
fintech company processing 5,000 queries
per day and users start complaining
about so slow responses might even take
more than 15 to 20 seconds instead of
the expected 3 to 5 seconds. Now the
operations team needs to pinpoint which
node is the bottleneck and why. And this
is exactly what the Langfuse
observability is built for. So we are
going to do these four things.
Deliberately introduce three realistic
bottlenecks
and then run both the original uh and
the slow uh agent. The original one
which we have just now created. This is
what is running. That is our original
one. and then the uh also check the
length few traces and compare before and
after to demonstrate how the
observability
is driving optimization. Okay, so these
are the three bottlenecks that we will
be creating redundant LLM calls. So
instead of three API calls, we'll now be
uh making four and that fourth API call
would be just a confidence check in one
of the sentiment analysis or you can say
the query categorization part. Okay.
uh over retrieval. So instead of
retrieving three documents, I'm going to
retrieve 15. That is also going to bloat
the prompt. So more number of prompt uh
or more amount of information is going
and that will also
nudge the LLM to think more, struggle
more to get to the realistic uh answer.
Okay. So that is going to further slow
down and we'll also put some artificial
delay maybe 7 to 8 second sleep
simulating a slow external API. Okay. So
this is in real world equivalent um
calling a legacy rest API endpoint which
doesn't have a timeout.
Okay. So these are the real world
equivalents. So in this case missing K
limit or threshold on vector search. So
the model decides or maybe the amount of
K is decided in real time by a model or
something. So in which case it can be
three, 10, 15 or it can be any number.
So how do we we create this low node
functions? So it is the copy of the
original node function. This is most uh
the same and this is the bottleneck
part. Okay, where I'm creating a
verification prompt. So this is the one
for categorizing into billing, technical
and general. And after the model has
categorized,
I am making another API call to verify
if the categorization is correct.
Okay, with the same model. So you
previously classified this query as this
topic. Please verify this classification
is correct for this particular query and
return the verified category. So it's
the same thing with the same pyantic
model and you are invoking with a new
verification prompt. Okay. So this is a
redundant API call uh artificially
asking it to verify the previous work.
In the current scenario it is redundant
but who knows that this itself can be
really something good uh maybe as a good
cross check or a validator or something
like that. But
Yeah, second bottleneck. Uh I'm just
going to uh simulate a legacy external
API by introducing this uh sleep time.
So this is the one which is going to uh
also make this API call slow. Okay, so
this is while analyzing the sentiment.
Okay. So while analyzing the query
category, a new redundant API call is
made and while analyzing the query
sentiment, okay, a bottleneck has been
introduced which is like uh making the
entire system sleep for 8 seconds. This
is like stimulating that the API call is
taking eight more seconds for the
overall response to be generated.
Okay. So and the third one is while
doing the response generation instead of
retrieving the top three I'm going for
top 15 and this is what is going to
bloat the entire uh prompt with
irrelevant content and context more
tokens will go inside that will also
lead to higher cost input cost at least
and also latency will increase so rest
all the things are same the only
difference is
this three changed to 15 in the previous
case. This is the new line which added
and in this case this is a new part
which was added. I hope this is clear
everyone. How did I introduce these
three bottlenecks
clear? Yes. No.
Yeah.
Now let's build a slow graph. This code
is exactly the same. The difference is
instead of the normal graph dot add node
it is the slow graph dot add node. So
graph architecture is everything is the
same. If you want you can print it.
Okay.
So that's not exactly okay. Let me
see if I can print it. Yeah. So you can
see very much it's the same. Okay. This
is exactly same as the previous one.
Nothing new. Now I'm going to run both
the agents, okay,
side by side with the same query and
performance hopefully will be different.
Okay,
so we'll run the same technical query
through both the agents and measure the
wall clock time. Langfuse captures the
full trace for both. uh an important
note for fair benchmarking we will
include a warm-up LLM uh call first to
eliminate the cold start connection
overhead. So what it means is the first
time the first API call is made usually
it is seen
that the first API call from your
account takes a slightly more uh
time the latency is more okay the
subsequent API calls are much faster so
that is exactly the warm-up uh LLM call
first and this is more of a problem for
open-source models which have been
deployed on hugging phase inference
servers or your custom bedrock models.
Okay. Uh those
production grade models which are almost
running 24/7 millions of queries every
every minute. Okay. For them it is less
of a problem because the model is
already running spinning and
continuously you know spitting out uh
all sort of generations for every other
customer. Okay. For example, for GPT,
Anthropic, Germany, though, this can be
less of a problem. But if you have a
custom deployed model which is not
continuously being used 24/7, okay, uh
it gets used once and then there is a
lag of another 1 hour and then there is
another API call. So if there is uh you
know good amount of time interval where
the model has not been executed that is
where this cold start connection
overhead can be a deal breaker. Okay.
So we'll run the slow agent first. So
any residual or warm-up penalty hits the
bottleneck that will go to the slow
agent only. And reasoning models might
have higher per call latency variance.
Again in some case it could be just 2
seconds other cases can be 20 25
seconds. The problem is these models
will decide on the fly on the fly how
much reasoning will be done for a given
use case. So if you want more
deterministic outputs go for a
non-reasoning model let's say GPT 4.1
mini.
Okay. Uh in which case since there is no
reasoning involved now the entire
latency will be driven by the model's
output. That's it. not for from the
reasoning path. So wall clock comparison
can be a bit noisy as well because again
it will depend on the uh CPU, GPU and
other things. Okay.
So wall clock time means how much time
it went uh or how much time has elapsed
from
making the API call till receiving the
final output from the model. Okay. So
that is our complete work clock time.
And this can be exactly slightly
different from what the langfuse can
see. Okay, slightly it can be.
Okay, so here is the question. Do you
support pre-trained models? Okay. So I'm
just
warming up uh running the slow model
slow agent first compiling all the uh
times. Okay. And then calculating the
time elapsed and then running the
original agent with the same query
calculating the time elapsed and then
summarizing how much is the uh delay
which has happened. Okay.
So you can see retrieve 15 documents
2,600
characters roughly with a 8second delay.
The total delay I mean the total time it
took for completion is 28.2 seconds. So
this will also be observed in my lang
fuse.
I think uh do the traces
Yeah, same 28.2 seconds. So, this is the
one. Okay.
And uh you get the answer. And the other
one took 16 seconds.
So the one which took 16 seconds should
be the later one.26
seconds. So this is the one which
Yeah.
Okay. And uh bottleneck overhead is
roughly 12 seconds out of which 8 second
was a dead sleep. Even then it was a
latency introduced for 4 seconds. So 4
second is still uh slower uh I mean
bottleneck that you have manually
introduced. Okay. And partly that is
coming from the verification
not partly in fact majorly it is coming
from the verification because I don't
think the
uh retrival would have taken much time.
Okay let's see the retrieval times. Okay
I'm zooming out. So this is the original
agent with 16 agent 16 seconds. Let me
see how much time it took for the
retrieval part. Okay.
So, vector store retrieval is 0.19
seconds. Please have a look. Okay. 0.19
seconds. That is with the original one
with three documents retrieved. And now
with the slow agent, let's see the same
uh uh vector store retriever is 0.7. So
0.19 okay roughly 0.2 and this is 0.7.
So 0.5 seconds half a seconds half a
second was slow in the vector store
retriever. You can see very well. Okay.
When you retrieve 15 documents it is
half a second slower versus retrieving
three documents where it was only 2
seconds or.19 something. Okay I'll just
go back and show you. Yeah.19. So this
is 2 that was 7 for 15 documents 2 for
three documents. So half a second delay
was introduced there and um if you see
the first block here first block. Okay
uh first node let me click on the first
node the categorize inquiry. So
categorize inquiry is taking
overall latency. Do we have
numbers
Okay. Overall latency is
overall latency is 2.3 seconds.
Hello, am I audible? You can see this
overall latency is 2.23 seconds.
And when I had a redundant API call,
when I had a redundant API call, the
same node is now taking 5.06 seconds. So
definitely 3 seconds additionally is
coming from here.
Okay. So that is how you can actually uh
track back to back each of these.
Okay. So now the debugging part. Uh
again I have fetched all the traces and
uh what we are doing is identify where
the time and money being wasted. Okay.
So this is the entire code where I'm
just checking the recent trace. Okay,
the the last two checking for the entire
token usage to total cost everything you
can see and then also the per
observation breakdown and this is just
printing all of it. So nothing new but
look at this output. So the original one
is taking uh total latency of 12
seconds, three API calls. This is the
total token usage and this much. Okay,
that is a trace ID. Where is
uh Okay, I think this should have been
slow. This is a misprint here because
this is a slow version. Okay, I think
the second time this would be slow.
Yeah.
Mhm. Right. So this is for the slower
one. You can see very well. Okay.
So total latency is 17 seconds.
Yeah. No, it's the other way around or
what? Both are fast. Okay, let me see
what is happening. The slow has four.
Okay, let me make a fresh API call.
I think that will be better. So, we have
the graph. I'm making a fresh API call.
Okay, let's see.
Why is it taking so much time?
H.
Okay. So, we have it. So, the slower one
is four times slower. It almost took 60
seconds. Okay.
25 76 characters that anyway we had
seen. Slow agent completed 60 seconds.
The other one took 15 seconds. Okay. And
now you can see the other metrics.
Hopefully I have not deleted the Yeah,
correct. Now it is correct. I was
expecting this to be fast and this to be
slow. So you can see now your LLM calls
are four instead of three. This is a
higher cost.
You can see.
And then uh latency also you can see 2
103 this is 46 seconds latency I don't
know how but uh this has taken 46
seconds almost
and uh then we have the other
so this latency is initially because of
the warm-up it seems very much okay plus
the other API calls are also taking more
tokens
and here the number of tokens that we
have given to the model is
okay
that is for the response generation.
So much larger time it has taken to
reply.
I think it will be easier to you know
look it into the traces. So here it is
better. Okay. So again we can check this
is for the slow. It has taken 1 minute
roughly. You can see I'm just zooming
in. It has taken 1 minute and uh I'm
just going for the vector store driver
which is 02 seconds.
Uh sorry.
Yeah. So 02 seconds and here this took
only 15 seconds
and vectors to retriever
is 2 seconds. Aa so this time it took
same. So it again depends how the
warm-up period is affecting both. So it
will also affect the vector store
retriever. If it is doing back to back
then it will be fine. But here this is
taking roughly 10 seconds. You can see
10 11 seconds whereas in the previous
case uh that was much slower uh faster
in fact.
So this is 46 versus 10. Okay. And this
much time it has taken primarily because
of bloating of the context because model
had to spend more time to filter out the
right context to you know generate that
reply. So that is why it took 46 seconds
for the slower one and here that was
only
in the original one it was only 11
seconds right. So that is what we got.
So 46
versus only 11 seconds.
Okay. So, how to debug this? Uh, this is
what I have just now demonstrated. You
can just check. Now, these numbers will
be different. Okay.
Um,
yeah. So, this is again one-on-one
analysis for each of the API call. So
this is for the u response generation.
Okay. So not only more number of tokens
are being used but also uh cost is more
because of that and also the time taken
was more. So 11 seconds versus 46
seconds.
Okay.
So these were the last two
and then so these were more or less
similar. This is also more or less
similar. Okay. And this was one
additional for the verification. I think
this is for the verification.
And this is the final comparison
summary. Okay, just check here.
Okay, this is uh just a static print of
what originally I had got. But yeah, I
think it is pretty much clear. Okay, so
let's close this topic. We are done.
Yes, 10.36 on the fast it has taken and
uh
let's come back and check once this is
46.
Yeah. So largely because of the
reasoning that is what I also believe
that is because of the reasoning 10.55.
So 10.36
and including the other things it
becomes so 10.36 yes correct on the fast
model sorry on the fast agent and that
is largely because of the reasoning okay
reasoning can take time and how much
token was generated you have also not
provided a constraint on that so it is
possible that it might have generated
more tokens also so for example here it
has generated 854 tokens
versus in the in the slow case it has
generated
uh again
593 1072 yeah so 10% more 10% more
so that was 894 or 900 this is 1,000
roughly so 10% more tokens were
generated again because of the
additional information it got it thought
that this additional information might
be helpful. So it has retrieved all
those 15 documents. You can see these
are all the 15 documents that were
retrieved and then this was the response
that was generated
and you can see this number 600 tokens
as the input.
Okay.
So this output also contains the
reasoning. So you you'll have to see the
actual breakup.
Okay. So this output 1072 also contains
the reasoning tokens. So we'll have to
be careful okay while analyzing.
So this was only 183. If you see this
was only 183 because of the top three
context documents and that was roughly
600 for the slow agent where we were
retrieving 500 sorry 15 documents.
Okay nice. This is done. Let's go back
to the next topic.
Let me know if you have any questions.
All good.
notebook. I did share
I had uploaded the notebook Santosh
the link sharing was not working so I
had uploaded it.
Let me try sharing the link once again.
Yeah. So this is the link.
That time that link was giving a
problem. So I had manually uploaded
then done
then okay ch so let's go to the next one
I'll share the tutorial file in the chat
so let me know if you can download that
and run.
How do we find the LLM cost? It was
there throughout. I have been talking
about the costs.
So where did you miss that?
Overall usage was also there. Okay, let
me show that screen again.
Tracync.
So look at the top topmost
This is the total cost for the entire
agent run.
Total cost
summary dashboard. Uh
let's check if we are looking for a
summary dashboard. You'll probably
implement it. But total latency you can
see. Total cost also you can see from
here. of the overall tokens the and the
total cost. This is what you're looking
for. Or if you want to create a custom
dashboard, then you can fetch the traces
the way we did it in the collab
notebook. And from there, you can build
your own uh you know customized
dashboard. But from the traces, this
window is also good enough I think.
>> Okay.
>> Uh thanks Pashan. Can we write uh some K
queries from the search uh text box also
like uh the way how we write uh K
queries in Azure or AWS
>> uh so queries for what
>> uh for the log traceability log
>> that I have not done maybe
>> that's similar to KQL
>> yeah
but where do we put it
There's again I don't know if that is
supported here.
Sorry I'm asking questions but this is
my first session I'm attending because
this observability there so that's my
area of interest so I attended
you can download this also exported
um
usage management. Let's check this is
what we have got overall. So there are
three dashboards. One is the latency
dashboard.
>> Okay.
So this is additionally introduced just
now that is why this has started
spiking. Okay. So we have these three
dashboard. One is the usage dashboard
which talks about all the counts
and other is latency and the other third
one is the cost.
So without querying also you are getting
almost everything and you can just
select in last
1 day 1 hour whatever
you can also apply filters for each of
these in columns. So for example you had
the columns in tracing right? So these
are the column names in the tracing. So
if you want you can apply those filters
with these columns also.
So maybe like metadata or score action
any of these. You can even have
additional tags programmatically or
manually also. So maybe these tags can
also be used for filtering.
Okay.
So we already have these three
dashboards. I think that should be good.
and widgets can be created. So
additionally now this is like your uh
I mean PowerBI widgets or you can say
visuals. Widgets are like visuals. So
what additionally do you want to
display? So you can create your own
widgets. Okay. Like this is the count
for the traces but anything additional
that you want to create on your own
custom that is called as your widget. So
even that can be done but I think these
three itself is quite sufficient to get
at the high level. Okay. So we have
cost. Yeah. We have the cost, usage and
latency.
Yeah. Done.
Fine.
Okay. Um,
so everyone is able to uh click on the
tutorial file right which I have shared
that is on the MCP.
So that's like uh 18 17 18 page
document. Okay. So let's go through that
document one by one. Okay. Because all
the technical information is there. We
don't have to understand each and
everything. But at a high level we will
see and uh we'll try to finish that in
another 15 20 minutes. Then we'll go for
a break and after the break we'll do a
into hands-on. Right.
Okay. So this is the tutorial file which
I have shared.
Uh
current you want to share a same
tutorial file over again. I have just
uploaded this.
>> Uh I got logged off so I could not see
the link you know. Yeah. Thank you.
>> Okay. I have just now uploaded it again.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Thank you. Got it.
>> Yeah. Okay fine. So what is the highle
problem that we are solving? I mean you
can keep going uh through this. This is
uh
too many things but uh let me just give
you a very high level idea what we are
discussing in this. Okay.
So MCP is your model context protocol.
The other one we are discussing is your
agent to agent protocol. These are the
two protocols that we are discussing.
Um, okay. Forget about this. Just listen
to me. Okay. I mean, I don't want you to
see.
So now you are creating uh let's say
five different agents or five different
applications
and each of these agent is accessing two
to three tools. So combinedly these five
agents are accessing 10 tools.
So if these five agents are in five
different applications.
So five different applications with five
agents
accessing 10 tools.
Which means five into 10
that is 50 code blocks for integrating
those tools into each of those agents.
Because the same tool integration with a
different agent will require a different
context, different way of integrating
because again a framework would have
also changed because the previous agent
was created using langraph the next
agent was created using crewi. So even
if the same tool is being used the way
you integrate the same tool with
langraph is not going to be the same as
in your crewi right. So the
integration codes will change every time
because the agent scenario context
many other things would have changed.
Okay. So five different agents in five
different applications, 10 different
tools, 5 into 10 50 integration codes
you have.
And this is only going to become more
and more problematic or nightmarish you
can say as the number of tools would
increase and the number of applications
or agents would increase. Okay. So that
is where the
dimensionality problem starts. Okay. in
this case.
And why is that a problem? Because those
guys who have written the tools are all
from different companies, from different
vendors you can say. And you cannot
enforce them to write down a tool code
as per your own sweet wish. And this was
a problem which Anthropic figured out in
November 2024. Okay, that everyone is
creating agents fine but those tools are
being created by other vendors or other
companies or other uh you know SAS
companies uh and so on and so
integration codes had to be written by
these builders or application developers
and everyone is doing the same effort at
their own way or in their own way
and that is a repeated uh You can say
effort, replicated effort, repeated
effort. Okay, you can say and wasted
effort because of the same repetition
happening across every other company.
And the sole reason was the tools were
written in a non-standardized format. So
integrating them was not like a
copypaste code that if the same tool was
integrated I can use the same code copy
paste for a different agent. No, because
it was written in a non-standardized
format.
So they wanted to write down a protocol
the entropy guys they are the one who
proposed the MCP model context protocol.
So they try to write down a protocol or
a standardization technique by which if
anyone is creating a tool henceforth you
follow that protocol so that the uh
tools can be easily discovered by the
application developers and could be
easily integrated. Okay. If the tools
have been written in a standardized
format and that is where they came up
with this protocol okay like hypertext
transfer protocol HTTP each browser is
able to serve the page in the same
manner because all the pages follow the
same protocol okay the browser and the
server that communication is facilitated
by your HTTP
uh protocol or HTTPS
that is hypertext transport protocol in
a secured mode. Okay. And between the
server and your application, which is
dockerized, the protocol used is
typically WSGI, web server gateway
interface, WSGI, which is what your
EngineX and your UVCON
uh reverse proxy implements, right?
Anyway, so that is the thing and how
does the solution get implemented.
So once all the tools have been written
using the MCP
the people who are writing the tools
they will be deploying the tools on a
server and that server is now being
called as the MCP server. Okay. So MCP
server is where the tools are deployed.
You are the developer writing an
application code.
Your application code is your client
where you are going to use those tools.
So MCP client and MCP server. MCP client
is the application code or the ID which
is going to use and call those tools
which are actually going to be deployed
on a third party server. Okay. And those
tools will also be executed on that
third party server. Those tools will not
be executed at your server or in your
application code. Right? So cool that
entire tool code the invocation of the
tool code or execution of the tool code
everything is managed by the uh MCP
server. That is why we are calling it as
a server because someone is serving the
tools. Okay.
And you are just consuming that via API
call. So how are you instructing your
MCP server to execute a particular tool?
Now that can be in two ways. Okay. So
either your application sends a natural
language query.
Okay. Either your uh uh pictorially
again I don't have
okay let me try this.
So this is one image I got the first
image when I search for MCP. So this is
your host with your cloud ID whatever
that is where your application is
written. Okay. And there will be your
MCP server. There can be multiple MCP
server. Each server is hosting some of
the tools. Okay. So tool could be
accessing a particular database on that
server. Okay. So for example,
I can take an example of let's say this
is your AWS MCP server. Now AWS MCP
server has several tools. uh one tool to
access your identity and access
management, one tool to access your S3
buckets, one tool to launch and
terminate your EC2 instances, one tool
to set up your bedrock uh models and so
on. So each of these services are served
via different different tools and
everything is coordinated by a single
server that is your a AWS MCP server.
Okay.
So some server code you will be able to
download uh and connect with your uh
host okay
with the client. So what is the host and
what is the client here? So there are
two words here. One is server we have
understood but what is the host and what
is the client. So basically your client
is your IDE and host is your actual
application.
Okay, your actual application that is
the host
and client is your ID. Okay, you can
say. So host with the MCP client you can
say.
Uh other one uh other example is let's
say GitHub MCP server. So you want to do
some of the GitHub actions. Let's say
pull some repository, clone some
repository or merge a PR request or
something like that. So each of these
queries will go to the MCP server.
Server will decide which tool to use
okay and perform that action. You will
probably not have direct access to the
tools also. Okay. In some cases you will
have access to the direct tools but in
many cases you may not even have in that
case if you're not having direct access
to the tools. Direct access means you
cannot instruct to use that exact tool.
Some cases you can do that. depends how
that tool has been wrapped. Okay. So
your query can go in a natural language
to the server that I want to do this.
Then the server decides which tool to
use. Let's say I want to the third tool
could be again
uh let's say your zero the MCP server.
Has anyone seen that zero the MCP
server? Zero the MCP server. Okay.
So zeroda is like a broker account.
Okay. Um one of the very popular bro uh
broker account and that is also equipped
with a MCP server and you can do all
sort of analysis. Let me show you the
queries here. Okay. So if you have set
up your uh for example there is a setup
which I have already done.
So here is my cloud code.
Okay.
And I have set up my connectors. So in
the connectors you can see the kite.
Kite is the zerodhas API name. So I have
set up the connectors and once I have
set up the connectors all the tools are
available. So I can directly ask this
kind of a
you know query to my cloud okay that
analyze my portfolio. See this is not
mentioning any tool. So this is a
natural language query which goes to
zerodha. Zerodha server decides which
all tool to use to fetch your entire
portfolio holdings. Okay. And it will
give you not you in fact claude all the
portfolio holdings with the number of
shares and the other other details and
then claude will do all these analysis.
So this figure is not generated by the
uh kite API or MCP server. This figure
this figure this figure these are all
generated by
claude not by the zerodha API. So zero
API is only giving the raw data. Okay,
fetching from your own account giving
the raw data. Raw data would be let's
say top five positions by market value
that is being done by some tool. Okay,
that tool will fetch your top five
holdings. The tool will give you the
best and worst performance. In fact, the
tool will give everything because there
is a function there is a tool which
fetches everything. Now from there this
filtering is all done by the claude okay
unrealized PL/ summary. So now this is
fetched by another tool. Okay. So one
tool to fetch the holdings. Okay, this
is all coming from there and from the
holdings uh we are able to read the name
of the company and once the company name
is there then Claude will use the web
search tool to get the sector uh which
it is because mostly in the holdings you
will not get a sector uh you will also
probably not get the volatility. So it
might need some additional web search
and so on to fetch out some of these
additional details also plot my
portfolio curve against the equal weight
component. So this is again
done by uh claude because uh it might
need to fetch Nifty 500 or some other
index data for benchmarking. So again
there is another query here. Please
group my open positions. Now there is a
tool to fetch the open positions.
directly based on the underlying and
calculate the net delta. So this
calculation is done at the clawed end
not at the zeroda end or the broker end.
Broker is only fetching all the
positions which are open and then all
this calculation is done at the claw end
and this kind of you know output is
given to you. Okay. So this is all
coming from there. Again another example
here. Please provide a summary. So what
I'm trying to say is there are two types
of servers where they will directly
expose the tools. So you can actually
call the tools in your code itself. The
other way is
you will provide a natural language
query and that natural language query
will go to the MCP server.
There some LLM is running behind the
scenes. LLM server tries to you know
decompose your query and find out which
all tools will be needed to uh you know
fulfill your query and then the query
execution happens at the server level
not at your end. Okay. And the output of
the tool executions are given to you in
the raw format. Okay. Maybe as a JSON
file or HTML or you know XML CSV
whatever is the raw format. Okay. mostly
which is JSON only and then your client
will take that raw format and do the
further analysis. Okay, that is how it
goes. So coming back to this uh there
was one uh pro statement written here.
So this nightmare I think that is very
clear. Okay, so the possible solution is
if you standardize the tool creation.
Okay. Then for 10 tools you will write
or you will need 10 codes and for five
applications you will uh write five
codes. So 5 + 10 is 15. So 15 code
blocks will be needed to just you know
connect to each of these 10 tools. So
why we are calling it as a USB? I think
that word might be there several times
here.
So USBC analogy because you can easily
plug and play because each tool has been
written with the same protocol same
format. So if this is your application
this is a tool here you can just plug
out that particular tool plug in another
tool and all this plugin and plugout is
happening via common port and that is
the USBC we are talking and that common
port is now being called as the MCP. So
if all the tools are standardized then
plugging your tools with the
applications become easy okay you don't
have to write down lot of codes to do
that integration those redundant
integration now again as I said
so that's open standard introduced by
anthropic in November 24 to standardize
how AI systems particularly LLM
integrate with external tools data
sources and devices so what is the main
USP here uh main USB is the integration
codes are now well structured you don't
have to write down uh so many
integration codes that is one second
these
servers which are now serving uh the
tools what are their tools now so you
can have database tool okay so one tool
is wrapped around so let me give a
simple example so it could be a customer
database Or it could be orders database
let's say. Okay. So you have created a
tool which will query this orders
database. So let's say the customer is
asking what is the status of my order
number 1 2 3 4 in the chatbot. Okay. Now
that query goes to the server via MCP
server. Okay. And the server now figures
out okay this order number I have to
fetch this order number status. So I
think I have a database
called as orders DB which is served by a
tool. Okay
let's say it is orders DB tool. Okay so
I will call that tool which will make a
query to that database and fetch the
status to the user and give it to the
user. Okay. So all that query execution
mostly again is hardcoded.
Okay. What it means is the SQL queries
which are going to be run by those tools
on those servers sorry on those
databases ideally again as I said
ideally it will be hardcoded. So which
means the chances of prompt injection is
also gone. So LLM is not writing any
code because if the LLM wants to write
down code what is the biggest problem?
If the LLM wants to write down that
code,
LLM needs to have a complete context of
the database schema. What was the table?
What are the table names? What are the
column names? And you may not be
comfortable sharing your entire database
schema to these LLMs for the LLMs to
write down the queries. Okay. So, plus
prompt injection issues and those things
are there. Now, prompt injection can
happen from the uh chatbot itself or the
customer itself. Okay. can you know give
a complete query which has a prompt
injected within it. Okay. So these are
the nuances by which MCPS have become so
popular. Okay. So in MCP the tool is
executed at the server level. You are
the developer. You have no idea what is
happening at the server because you
don't have access. All you will get is
for your query you'll get the response
properly in the raw format. Okay.
So
yeah, so this is one figure I found
which can explain there are again
multiple such. So this is MCP host and
you have MCP clients. So again once
again let me repeat MCP host is your IDE
and within that ID you can have multiple
applications okay which are your MCP
clients and then there can be multiple
MCP servers which are serving different
different tools. In this case, it's a
MySQL database. This could be a file
system. MCP server which is connecting
to your file system. File system could
be local also. It could be remote and
one MCP server is doing a web search
maybe. So, till now we have been using
Tavi directly as a API. We can actually
use a TE's MCP server also.
Yes, let me repeat. We can use the TI's
MCP server also. In this case uh the
request goes to the Telei web server and
Telei web server will run the API in its
own back end. You are not making API
call. Okay. So your request will go to
the MCP server of Telei in the natural
language. Okay. And the tool will be
executed at the server level. Right now
we have been directly using the Tele
tool in our client location. Okay. We
have been executing every time and the
big problem with that is if there are
some bugs in the tool code because
mostly you are executing a tool at your
own you know client side
okay the host side or the client side.
So if there are bugs in the tool code
that can be you know destructive also to
your file system to your machine and so
on. So here is the biggest advantage.
The tools are all run at the server
level. Anything happens, you don't
bother. Your code, your client, your
machine is safe.
So these are the things which are
common across all of these diagrams and
so on. You can see MCP host is your main
IDE and then within that you have the
client which is your actual application.
Okay. Uh with the agent. So application
is your agent let's say. Okay.
And then uh MCP servers interface
interfaces with data sources
and exposes capabilities. Now these cap
capabilities could be tools, resources
and prompts. Okay. To the MCP clients
and then these are all executed finally.
Okay. So coming back.
So all the communication happens using
JSON RPC format that is the messaging
format. Okay. And there can be two types
of protocols which are using the
transport mechanism how the
communication is happening. So one could
be using the stddio that is basically
when your MCP host and the server are in
the same machine then the uh transport
mechanism is standard input output that
is stdiodio whereas sS your server sent
events is when your u
uh you know host is your local machine
and server is a remote machine. Server
is a remote machine. Okay. Uh actual
third party server that is where the
transport mechanism would be your SSC.
So I think
so these are all the ids we can use
MCP server can be across clone and any
other MCP compatible client. Okay.
Hm.
Fine.
Okay. So, this is the last uh most
powerful statement.
A company maintaining 100 laptops might
need five different charger types. So,
before MCP, a company running five AI
applications against 20 data sources
needed 100 such custom integrations.
Okay.
How do I make this off?
I mean, so MCP collapses the M n crossm
problem into a n plus m problem that
builds n clients and m servers. Okay.
And everything just connects.
So some examples are there for banking
and financial services context. Consider
compliance officer who needs an AI
assistant to search regulatory
documents. Cross reference with internal
policy databases and check recent
enforcement actions and draft a
compliance memo. So so many actions are
being performed without MCPI application
needs separate connectors for each of
these systems. Okay. And uh so for
example in in a company like this the
MCP server will be written by a
different set of developers although
it's the same company. So the actual
application who is application developer
who is writing down a chatbot let's say
that is the end user application and
there would be another team who is
writing down the tool code. Now those
guys will have actual access to the prod
server. those guys will have actual
access to the databases and so on. As
application developer at the front end,
you may not have access to all of those
servers and databases and that is not
even needed and that is what uh that
clear separation of responsibilities and
you know access is brought by your MCP.
MCP simply says that you just expose the
tool let the client only use the tool.
Okay, only few set of people who have
super admin access to these servers
where these tools will be run and they
only can directly access your
so that is the whole idea.
So without MCP AI application needs
separate connectors and with MCP it
exposes a MCP server that's what I said
and AI application simply speaks to
these MCP.
Another scenario is in healthcare a
clinical uh decision support agent might
need to query patient records uh via
EHR. EHR is electronic health record MCP
server. So there is MCP server which is
serving the EHR data. Lookup drug
interactions. This uh drug interaction
is being served by another pharmacy
database MCP server. That's a separate
server again and check the latest
clinical guidelines via PubMed MCP
server. So there is a third party again
server which is serving the clinical
guidelines. So you are connecting to
three different servers from and this
connection is although via API call but
this is much simpler than trying to you
know fetch the raw data and all of that.
Okay. So MCP makes this plug-andplay
architecture. So if you want to change
your uh clinical guideline server from A
to B, you can easily do that. Okay,
that's the thing.
Okay.
Uh Okay. So, architecture again I would
not get much except we should be clear
with these three terms. I have very very
well clearly documented. So, host,
client and server. This is what I have
been talking about. Uh host is the
application that the user interacts with
directly. So this is your cloud desktop
chat GPT cursor. So this is the chat
interface that I was talking about.
Okay. Um
do you have access to my AWS MCP server?
Can you fetch the list of
uh EC2 instances?
I don't know if this screen is visible.
>> Yeah, I like the way you write returns.
That's nice.
>> Yeah. um EC2 instances
oops are running
list
running EC2 instance let's see
so first you have to nudge okay whether
they are able to access the server or
not so right now it doesn't have access
probably these are the only ones which
are running
and I need to somehow Now connect. So my
servers manage connectors
and it does seem to
be enabled but probably I'll have to
refresh that connection.
There is there is MCP server.
Okay.
Or in the connectors also you can add or
browse connectors. There also you can
search for AWS.
And from here this is the one which I've
already added.
This is the one which is already added.
So let's go back and it
>> is asking to enable the uh disabled.
>> Already it's already enabled. So what is
that chat con?
So I see let's see I see that
it's already
connected to cloud
desktop
and you authentic
Why am
okay? I get it. So, usually this is
accessible from the cloud code, not from
the desktop application. Okay. So in the
cloud code, yes, it will be able to uh
so I think my cloud code is already
running some code which is
it was running
and the deployment was still running.
It's still going on. So so my cloud code
is already doing a lot of stuff.
in my AWS account. This is already
running since morning on and off. I have
been uh so what I'm doing here is uh Tim
asked for doing a stress test. So
I wanted to can you see here go through
this repo. uh I want to deploy this in
AWS docker container and do a stress
test that is simulate doing a thousand
API call simultaneously and let's see
what happens. So this is what I did.
No sorry can you see here and it has
spun a EC2 instance and it has installed
docker already by now everything I
didn't do anything this is all via ACP
uh AWS MCP server okay and this is all
the code files it has written I have
given all the keys and everything and uh
now it has almost done everything so
I'll need to just go and check this okay
but if you looking for a new session,
you can just again
connect or maybe
I'll just do one thing
same access my AWS MCP server
and uh list the running
C2 instance. Now here at least it should
work.
So it also works normally as seen in
co-work Lord.
It might take time. So in the meantime,
let's continue.
Okay. So this is very clear. Uh your
host is the
ID that you are using. Okay. Creates and
manages the MCP client. So MCP client is
the actual application.
um client establishes one-on-one session
specific connection with the MCP server
and the client handles the capability
negotiation protocol messaging and
maintain security. Okay, in simple
terms, client is your agent which is
going to
uh you know use the
tool. Okay, so this is your application
or the agent. This is where you create
your application. Okay, or execute your
application in say and server is where
your tool resides. Tools, data,
resources and other capabilities. Not
just the tools but could be data could
be other capabilities other resources
everything that you are requesting.
So wraps the data source or API or the
file system okay or any other making it
functionally available to any MCP client
point. So this is the entire life cycle
initialize operate and shut down. So
every time this is what is going to
happen
and again we'll not get into all the too
much specifics of all of these probably
yeah frameworks the most important
framework is fast MCP so this is the one
which is decorator based so add the rate
tool you can use okay a python function
and decorate it with add the rate tool
so this is the one which we are going to
use in the hands-on we'll take a quick
break now Okay.
So other details you can follow and uh
after the break we'll discuss about the
A2A. Okay. So is there any success?
It's doing a lot of stuff.
This is probably warm up. Ah that's what
I told you.
Okay. So my stress test uh
is running
t3.xlarge. This is the instance ID. I
did not do anything. See
I get such a nice
report. Nothing right.
So I actually
how is the cloud max plan? I am still
exploring Sikhant.
So, but of course uh now you don't have
to bother about getting uh your limits
hit every other day because I was
hitting my limits almost for one and a
half months every day or every alternate
day. Not just the daily limits but also
weekly limits. Okay. And on top of that,
I paid additionally around $98
uh on top of what my $20 subscription.
So almost $120 I paid the last month
without the max plan. So then I thought
it's anyway logical to move to the max
plan now if that is the case. So this is
one I think
we can
fine
uh this is a clear demonstration how it
works right.
Okay.
Uh MCP server is nothing but API
service. At a high level, answer is yes.
Uh you can say but uh while writing that
API,
you don't have to write down that API.
First thing is that okay, someone else
has written that API and provided to
you. So you don't even have to know the
API endpoints. That is a basic advantage
of MCP server. Okay. So server will
decide which API endpoint to hit or
which tool to execute. So all that is
managed by the server. Okay. You just
have to hit the server with a natural
language query. That's it. A single
point of contact and you can do 50
operations. The server manages it. If
you want to use it directly as a API
service, then each of these tool would
be hosted on a separate endpoint and you
would have to write down 50 codes for 50
endpoints. And that is the original
problem back. You can write on your own
MCP server. Right. And that's the
demonstration we'll do after the break.
Yes.
Okay.
Great.
Okay, everyone back.
Okay.
So, let's continue.
Okay. So, quick idea about this A2A.
So, A2A is basically agent to agent
protocol. Uh how one agent will
communicate with another agent. It's as
simple as that. Okay. So, in MCP the
agent communicates with tools,
resources, prompts.
Whereas in a agent to agent protocol
developed by Google, how one agent is
talking to another agent. So let's say
let's say you have built a personal
assistant. Agent agent a personal
assistant. Now you are asking this agent
to book a flight for you. Simple
scenario. Okay. So this agent will first
connect to the agent of let's say
Air India, Indigo whatever. So each of
these websites have let's say their own
agents.
So it connects with the Air India's
agent or Indigo's agent or whichever
airline agent and your agent is asking
airline agent what is the availability
uh price and you know time schedule of
flight from so and so source to
destination whatever on so and so date
in the evening slot or morning slot or
before 6:00 a.m. and something like
that.
So the airline agent will do a internal
search and come up with these three four
options are available for early morning
flight. This source destination this is
the sector. Okay. And these are the
prices for the economy for these four
flights which are available.
Simple right now. You want your agent to
also look for hotels
destination city. So imagine that u the
big hotel retail chains maybe Marriott
or Hayat and so on they have their own
agents. So it connects directly with
those agents and queries for the
availability room availability in
whatever category on so and so date for
so and so you know number of days and
they will come up with the availability.
So here the entire communication is
happening from between two agents. Okay.
So if a booking has to be uh done let's
say
so your agent will say that okay now I I
want to book uh this particular flight
okay now their agent will probably u do
all the connections behind the scenes
with another agent which is the payment
gateway maybe Stripe Razer pay bill pay
bill easy pay whatever ever is the
onboarded uh payment gateway agent. All
these payment gateways are also coming
up with their agents. Okay. So,
communication between the airline agent
and the payment gateway agent. Okay. And
finally that uh let's say you will be
presented with a QR code or a payment
link maybe. Okay. So if it is let's say
a QR code or a payment link you go ahead
and do that or somehow you know if your
uh agent has access to your account
credentials it will go ahead and do the
those things. So that is all facilitated
by all these agents. So that is the
entire highle concept between agent to
agent protocol. Okay.
So it's a communication standard
introduced by Google because they also
felt that okay uh we are falling behind.
It was purely coming from the FOMO.
Okay. When uh this guys Enthropic in
November 24 came up with the MCP they
said okay no we also have to you know
give some standards to the industry.
Okay. So they came up with this A2A in
April. Okay.
and they realize that there are still
some gaps which are not being addressed
by your MCP. Okay. So they wanted to
enable secure communication
collaboration between the agents
directly. Okay. Without
going into the framework vendor
deployment platform. So each of these
agents can be created using different
frameworks. So let's say the agent one
was created using Langraph. The other
agent was created uh using CRUVI. The
third agent was created using autogen
doesn't matter. Okay. And where even
they are deployed. So MCP solves how an
agent connects to the tools and data. A2
solves how agents communicate with each
other in simplest terms. Right?
So that was developed with input from
all these different technology partners.
It is open sourced and uh yes
so one simple uh analogy we will see so
without A2A the ER er is emergency
response you can say doctor calls
radiology on the phone explains the case
verbally waits for the call back and
then calls surgery separately explains
everything again and manually
coordinates the handoff okay each
department uses its own communication
method With A2A, every department
publishes a standardized department card
which has all the capabilities, intake,
procedures, specialtities and contact
endpoint. So when the ER needs the
radiology, it looks up the radiology
department card, sends a structured
referral request and receives an update
on the task progress. It is that simple
because that that entire communication
is you know standardized.
So
all that manual repeat is and see this
all manual process can involve a lot of
API calls plus there will be
inconsistencies
you cannot enforce. So this is all
solved by your A2A fine.
So architecture uh wise again there will
be client and server. Client is the one
who is going to initiate the call.
remote is the one where it wants to talk
to will receive the request process them
as the task and respond with the status
update. So in this case in your airline
application case your virtual assistant
is your client agent and the remote
agent was the airlines agent from where
you were requesting the list of the
flights available on given date time uh
and uh you know for a particular sector
and then you have the agent cards
which will be like JSON metadata. We'll
I'll show you all of these and then the
task. So these are all the different uh
status messages
for the tasks which these agents are
performing. So submitted when the task
has been received, working input
required, additional information if it
is needed, completed, failed, canceled.
I think this is all self-explanatory.
But this entire life cycle management is
critical because if you're requesting uh
something from an agent, it should be
able to give the exact status okay at
any point of time.
Okay. So these MCP and A2A they're not
competing. They are in fact
complimentary roles in the enterprise
AI. MCP solves the agentto tool problem.
How a single AI agent connects to
different databases, APIs, files,
systems and services. A2A solves agent
to agent problem. How multiple agent
discover each other, communicate and
delegate tasks and also collaborate.
Okay, so this is the whole idea. When to
use which MCP is to be used when your
agent needs to access data bases, APIs,
file systems or any external tool A2A
when multip. So I think this is all very
clear and uh some real world project
ideas are also given here. Let me just
check this uh security
considerations
uh again prompt injection. So these
security injections are mostly important
when you are creating a server level
tool code server level code. Okay. So
then you have to think about prompt
injection permission scoping tool
poisoning and consent requirements other
things.
Okay. And I have given some uh list of
questions if you're really interested
maybe these can be used. So, so for
example these are interview questions
you can say and also some hints. Uh if
you are not very sure you can just copy
paste these questions in charge and you
can get the answers. But don't worry
let's directly head on to the
hands-on. Okay. Without much ado.
Okay.
Again,
file sharing is a problem. I'm just
uploading the Jupyter notebook.
Don't know why these days file sharing
is consistently giving a problem.
So that is uploaded in the chat and get
it from there.
So in this lab we'll be building a real
MCP server and client using fast MCP
framework. network and construct a A2A
compliant agent using your official A2A
Python SDK. So rather than just reading
about this protocol, let's write down
these codes and demonstrate. Okay, we'll
start with the MCP fundamentals. I I
think I have already discussed all that
but uh these are the key things that we
have
discussed in this steps in this
notebook. Okay.
So we'll be setting up all the
libraries and dependencies. Fast MCP is
the library that we'll be using to
create the MCP server. A2K, A2A SDK,
OpenAI and GRO. I think these are for
the models and these are for the
protocols themselves. Then we'll be
building our MCP server for banking
tools and we'll be using this decorator
at the rate MCP.
And connect MCP client and call the
tools. So for that we'll be creating
that client and the call tool add
resources integrate MCP with LLM for AI
agent. Okay. And then we'll build
multiple agents using A2A executor.
Okay. And then also demonstrate the
client server communication between
these agents and then finally we'll have
a combined architecture for a multi-
aent pattern and some real world
applications towards the end. Right. So
these are the steps.
Okay,
these are the packages and their
purpose. I have already done the
installation. This is all completely
running code. Okay, I'm not going to run
this again. Okay, this is going to take
time. But this is completely running. I
just verified this today evening just
before the session. Okay.
So yeah, these are all the installations
clearly uh configuration API keys
and then uh the key thing is async.io.
Okay. So using this nest async and async
these are the two libraries which we are
going to uh use for making asynchronous
calls between these agents
uh tools MCP servers and APIs. Okay.
So this is very very important.
So we will also have to enable async in
Google collab. Okay. Okay, if you're
running this in VS code, you may not
need this. Okay, uh because the way the
VS code handles asynchronous operations
is via different threads whereas the way
it is handled in Jupyter notebook or
collab is slightly different. So we'll
not get into the technicals of all of
these. Okay, but uh understand that
there will be some asynchronous API
calls that will be made. Okay, and for
that we are using the async IO. Okay.
So, set up the LLM clients and enable
the nested async loops required for
running async MCP2A codes in the collab
notebooks. That is what we have done.
Initialize the client. I'm not using
lang chain. Okay. Directly open AI and
grock.
No specific reason. It's just
random choice. Okay. If you want you can
replace this with lang chain stuff also.
if you want to especially implement
traceability and those things.
So I have my API clients directly set up
and this is a simple helper function
which I'm creating to do a pified print
just to print things nicely later on. So
clients are initialized async is patched
and now uh MCP part starts.
So here is the business scenario. Okay.
Uh, HDFC Bank account services. A retail
bank wants to let AI assistants access
customer account data, check bank
balances, and flag suspicious
transactions instead of building a
custom integration for each model. Okay.
They build one MCP server that any MCP
compatible client can connect to. So,
what are the operations that can be
done? uh
accessing the account data, checking the
balances and flagging suspicious
transactions. So this can be done at the
customer side. Okay. And uh
they didn't want to build custom
integrations for any of these instead
one MCP server. So this will expose
three primitives. One is the tools.
These are the actions which the AI can
execute like a API, post, endpoint,
resources. These are read only uh apt
loads in the context. Okay. So this will
be using the get endpoint. So post
endpoint for tool execution. Get
endpoints. These are also API endpoints
ultimately. But for get endpoints for
reading the data. Okay. Where is it
reading from? It could be reading from
your databases. It could be reading from
file systems. Okay. So this is read
only. And then prompt reusable message
templates for consistent interaction. So
prompts are also uh hardcoded and saved
let's say and these are all going to be
used by your tools and resources while
accessing the data right. So we'll be
building uh all the three using fast MCP
standardized framework that currently
powers more than 70% of all the MCP
servers available today. Okay.
So yeah, I hope uh a high level business
context is clear. Okay. So we'll be in
short creating MCP server called as SDFC
bank services with four tools. Okay.
We'll be creating four tools.
Okay. This is the tool one.
This is the tool number two. Okay.
Customer uh
yeah customer info. Second is the get
transactions. Third is the flagging
suspicious transaction tool. And the
fourth is the checking loan eligibility
tool. Okay.
So,
and how are we doing this? This is some
custom database. Okay. I mean, this is
just trying to simulate customer
database in production. So in real case
this will be a actual SQL database where
the customer data is stored and the
transaction data is stored. Okay.
So this is our core MCP pattern I would
say turning any Python function into a
standardized tool which any AI model can
later on discover and call. So how are
we doing this? Your MCP server that add
the rate MCP. This is how you are
decorating a Python function. So that
Python function now becomes a tool by
decorating your MCP dot tool function.
Okay, decorator. This is not a function.
This is a decorator. We call at the rate
this as the decorator. So you're
decorating this function as a tool.
Okay.
So this tool decorator does all the
heavy lifting. basically the schema
generation, validation, JSON, RPC
compliance, everything. Okay. So, we'll
be using this simulated uh database
dictionaries that we created above.
Okay.
These are dictionaries, database
dictionaries you can see. Okay. And
again, I'm trying to give some realistic
uh Indian banking data. Civil scores are
there, UPI transactions, EMIs and those
things you can see. Okay. And the
transactions also you can see the
transaction descriptions, amount, credit
or debit and the dates. Fine. So key
point is uh these functions are pure
plain Python if you see right and fast
MCP is only wrapping them into a MCP
compliant tool automatically.
Right? Let me repeat that last
statement. So these functions are pure
Python functions and this fast MCP
framework or library is just wrapping
these functions into MCP compliant tool
automatically.
Okay. So this document string that you
see this documentation string is the doc
string this becomes the tool
description.
Okay. This becomes the tool description
which these AI models will read to
decide which tool to call or when to
call these tools.
Clear? So make sure that all the tools
or functions that you are creating has
these proper documentation strings.
Fine. So if you want you can just go
ahead and check these functions. So I'm
just fetching the customer from its
customer ID and then if checking that
fun customer is present in the database
or not. If the customer is present in
the database then fetch the balance and
print it. Okay. Return the customer ID
with the other details of the customer
and the balance in a formatted way to
two decimal places. This is to get the
recent transactions. So you'll have to
provide the customer ID again and five
last transactions are fetched.
This is to flag the suspicious
transactions. So again it will need the
customer ID okay and the transaction
description. Also it will need the
string uh of the transaction and the
reason okay that you are flagging it.
uh hersa is asking could you explain
about this decorator? This is what I
just did. I mean let me repeat if you
missed it. So this add the rate
decorator is coming from your first MCP.
So this is any regular Python function
which you are turning into
regular Python function which you are
turning into a tool.
How you are converting a Python function
into a tool? By just decorating it.
Okay. Now this tool could be from
Langchain also provides you a tool
decorator. Langraph also provides you a
tool decorator. Okay.
In our case right now we are using this
tool decorator from fast MCP.
Okay.
So you are creating this bank server
from here
and you're decorating this. So first MCP
you can see SFC bank services and you
are creating this MCP server and now
that server is being
you are tying up or you are creating
these tools against that server. Right?
Simple
fine no worries. Uh okay, let's go
ahead.
Now the connection and uh testing part.
Uh so we are going to use the fast MCP
client to connect to our bank server and
call its tools programmatically. In
production this uh client could be
anything like cloud desktop, VS code and
so on. And all the communication happens
via JSON RPC over transport. Now
transport will be stdiodio that is a
standard input output for local and http
for remote. Okay. So right now the
client and the server is all going to be
in the same machine. Which machine?
Google collab. So what is the transport
mechanism we are going to use? Come on
tell me in the chat
for this collab notebook. What will be
the transport mechanism?
stdio correct okay because the client
and the server host or resides in the
same
in the same machine where this collab
notebook is running vertically. Okay.
So essentially this is showing the other
side of the MCP which is the client.
Okay. In production, this client could
be any of these uh like cloud desktop,
VS code, copilot, cursor, anything. So
here we are the client. Okay, the
pattern is you have the
okay so
I'm importing this client. Okay. And
then
what are we doing in this? Connecting
the client directly to the in-memory
server. No networking needed for testing
for now. So I'm just connecting the
client with the server. So here you have
the connection. So this is the
connection already done you can say.
Okay. In this now
that is a asynchronous
uh connection you can say you are doing
a async with that client in a way. Okay
you are doing a async with the client
and then first getting the list of all
the tools available and you will wait
until all the tools and their
descriptions are available. That is the
meaning of await and async. So whenever
you use async you will always use await
for the return. return means uh I mean
this client will return something,
right? So you will wait or you know the
program will wait until the
response is received. Okay. So
that is the asynchronous mode. Okay, you
can say
so when the all the list of the tools is
available. Okay.
And then we are printing all the
available tools you can say. And then
for tool in tools I'm just printing it
uh in the
Yeah. So here I'm printing all the tools
one by one. Okay. So this is what this
print is doing. So printing all the
tools one by one. You can see these four
tools were printed. Get customer info.
Retrieve this. Yeah. And this
description is automatically populated
from the dock string against each of
these functions. Correct?
So this in-memory connection which is no
network is the perfect for testing.
In production you would be actually
using uh something like
uh you can say
here
okay
in prod okay uh you would use something
like
has it mentioned some weird let me first
check I also forgot
No. So let me write it down here itself
then. Okay. Something like client and
your server would be somewhere like uh
maybe https
and you're connecting your server with
some URL. Okay. And from there the MCP
just like this kite server has got um
kite MCP server URL. I'm just showing
you okay how does the kite MCP server
URL looks like or AWS MCP server looks
like. See that's exactly how you would
be doing it.
Clear? So this is the primary URL for
the kite mcp server
let's just
fine clear everyone
makes sense
so you'll be providing your uh mcp
server URL okay mcp server URL
Okay.
So this will be making uh for remote
HTTP
uh connections you can say.
So most important thing is this list
tools that is one thing you have to
really appreciate. Okay, this is how AI
models will discover what's available.
This is a tool discovery step that makes
the MCP so powerful. There is no hard
coding needed. Just ask the client to
list down all the tools. That's it.
Okay.
So second step, what are we doing?
fetching the customer information for
this customer ID and then you are
waiting for the response and just
printing all that data. Result dod data
contains all the customer information
and PP is the pretty print function that
we defined at the start of the notebook.
Then you are also fetching the
transactions. Okay, how you are doing a
actual call call tool call tool call
tool. So this is the method that you are
invoking and for some customer ID. So
this is a JSON uh format you are
providing. Okay.
So this is again a JSON format. So this
is the name of the tool get transaction
get customer info. Okay. You are
actually getting the name of the
uh tool and then this is the JSON RPC
format in which you are providing the
input to that tool.
Okay. So let's say I want to fetch the
top three transactions for this customer
ID. Flagging the suspicious transaction
again. So here we are calling this tool
and this is the customer ID. This is the
description. Okay. And the reason
okay and then you are
printing it. Okay. The result. This is
the result that you would get from the
server after you make this call. Okay.
And you are just printing that
for loan eligibility again. So this is
the tool which we are using customer ID
and loan amount and sort for uh you know
loan type person. So the eligibility
result will be printed from the server
automatically.
Okay. So these are all the things uh I
have created here. So one by one each of
them will be done. Okay. And then you
are running the async test. So let's
look at the
results.
So customer ID uh 001 Priya Sharma. This
is the account ID. This is the balance
Mumbai civil score account type. These
are all the information. Then fetching
the transactions. So last three
transactions we have been able to fetch.
and um
one of the transactions has been flagged
by the customer. So this is the alert ID
that is returned from the server. Okay.
Status, customer ID, transaction and the
reason. So reason was specified by the
customer but the alert ID and the status
is coming from the server. Priority this
is also coming from the server created
at this is also coming from the server
side. Right? So all this information is
coming from the server. If you want to
go up and check how this is coming then
you can see this alert ID flagged or
not. Okay. Priority high. Now these are
like right now hardcoded but once the
actual system has executed then only it
will return anyway. Right. And some
alert ID is being randomly generated you
can see.
Okay. So this is what the banking system
would also actually do. They'll create
some ID and that ID is returned here and
status once everything has been done and
date time.
Yeah. So this is how it looks. Loan this
is the result. So declined because of so
and so reason. So civil score 810.
And why is it declined? This is
interesting.
Maybe that is hardcoded.
Let's check. Yeah. Approved if
pre-qualified.
Uh
declined. This is Yeah. So this message
is actually hardcoded. Okay. So don't
pay too much attention. This message is
hardcoded. You can make this more
robust. So but yeah this is in principle
how it works.
Uh okay there is another uh scenario
here business scenario style star health
insurance company wants to expose policy
data as resources and standardized
analysis templates which are prompts
alongside actionoriented tools. So we'll
see all the three here in this case.
Okay. So we are going to essentially set
up a second MCP server for this star
health insurance which will demonstrate
all these three MCP primitives
u tools, resources and prompts. Fine
resources again what are these?
So most people only know about MCP tools
but these uh resources and prompts are
also very important.
Okay.
So these resources are read only data
that your application loads into the AI
context.
H so think about all the get endpoints.
So AI will read these for reference
you can say and uh will not be able to
modify of course because it is read only
and prompts. So these prompts are
created by using at the rate MCP.prompt.
Okay, I can say this prompts are created
by using
mcp.prompt
and read mcp.resource.
Okay, this is how it is created
and this is created by addit mcp dot
prompt.
Okay. So main point is this uh tools are
actions which are your post endpoints.
Resources are get endpoints. Okay. Tools
are always
post endpoints and resources are get
endpoints and prompts are like templates
reusable templates. So complete MCP
server will use all of these three. So
in this case the insurance domain we are
showing all of these manually. Okay
let's see one by one. So there is a
submit tool that I'm creating here. Uh
which is a tool submit claim. I think
there is a submit claim.
Yeah.
Okay.
Submitting a new claim. Submit claim.
This is what I'm creating as a tool.
Then I'm creating this as a resource.
Can you see? So mcp.resource
that is the thing. This is mcp.tool.
tool. Okay.
And this is again mcp.tresource.
This is mcp.prompt.
So this is the prompt that we are
creating. So all three are there. Right.
So let's see one by one each of them. Uh
again some simulated policy database we
are creating. Simulated claims database
we are creating. So these are the
policies by so and so people aruna mira
a year
and the plan names the sum insured
premium being paid how many members
hospital network cashless at 12,000
hospitals valid until date claims filed
NCB NCB is no claim bonus discount 20%.
And similarly for the other ones. Okay.
Claims uh this is a claim ID you can say
and uh again policy to which that claim
is uh you know
attached to the claim amount hospital
name status approved. The other one is
under review diagnosis deno treatment
knee replacement and the date on which
the claim was made. Okay.
So this is 20 and today is 1st of March.
So yeah, this is already approved and
done and dusted. This is the one which
is still under review. So maybe this
goes to a later date like 28th
or 27th
this was raised. So this was raised
yesterday. Let's do it that way. H
okay. So this tool again uh is going to
submit the claim. So first a cla ID gets
generated randomly and the claim ID
is mapped policy ID
okay which the customer will be
providing a pro policy ID as a string
amount of claim hospital name and
diagnosis. So these are the four things
the customer is going to provide or the
hospital which is going to process that
claim is going to provide okay the TPA
from the hospital okay TP assistance
cell almost in India we have the third
party assistance cell TPA assistant cell
in each of these network hospitals that
process the claims so I'm just putting
all of them together resource is like a
lookup okay as I said so this is read
only loaded into AI context so get
complete policy details
resources are loaded into AI context for
reference. Okay.
And again there is another resource
which get claim history for a policy
useful for renewal analysis and NCB
calculation. So if there was a claim
made by the person in the last financial
year then there will be no
uh NCB where is whereas if the client uh
or the customer has not made any claim
in the previous financial year then uh
no claim bonus of 20% will be
applicable. So that is the basic logic
here. Okay,
which we have implemented and then the
prompt generate a analysis prompt for
reviewing insurance claim uh against
policy terms. So
this is the complete prompt template
which will be given to the model. Okay.
So you are this analyst. This is a claim
ID policy ID. Please analyze this this
this this provide your analysis in a
structured format. So this entire prompt
template goes to the LLM along with this
claim and policy and so on. Okay. What
else? There is another prompt template
for the renewal. So generate a renewal
recommendation prompt based on the
policy usage and the claim history.
Okay. So interesting use case. So I have
created all of these uh one tool, two
resources and two prompt.
Okay. Now I'm going to test all of these
one by one. So first you connect your
client with the server and then you
start reading.
So this is where the MCP plus LLM
integration actually starts now. Fine in
this case.
So here uh read the resource. So policy
ID I'm going to read everything about
that policy. How many times the claims
were made against that policy? who holds
that policy and everything about that
policy is now available as a context.
That context I can pass or I can reuse
it later. You see so first the context
is available okay as a resource.
So second thing is uh again I'm reading
the resource about the claims. So first
uh about that policy history. So yeah
this is the
so reading the claim history. So one is
reading the policy details, one is
reading the claims history. So these two
are there in the context and then
generating claim analysis template. So
your prompt
is ready
and uh here we are populating that
prompt okay with the claim ID and the
policy ID
okay and then I get this prompt template
and then from that generated prompt text
okay I'm just passing the first 300
characters for display and then you can
also
use the tool how it works. So the tool
was to submit a new claim. So here you
have provided a policy ID, the tool
amount, sorry, uh claim amount, a
hospital name. These are all hardcoded
which will be submitted. This is a post
request remember. So this will be
submitted. So after submitting the
server will return some data that you
are going to print. Okay.
So let's see.
So here are the policy details that were
fetched as the resource.
And this is claiming uh reading the
claims history
for this policy.
So two claims were made for that policy.
Generating the prompt analysis template.
So these are the tool available analyze
claim and renewal claim and generated
prompt you are star this this this claim
ID is there policy ID is there please
analyze so this is the complete prompt
template
okay and then submitting the new claim
so this is how you submitted that new
claim fine now let's integrate our
prompt template so our prompt template
is ready can you see this is our prompt
template with the claim ID and policy ID
already populated.
Now I'm going to submit this prompt to
the LLM. So this is where the real
integration starts. Okay.
So we are going to wire the MCP tools to
OpenAI's uh
function calling. Okay. Uh that will
build the actual AI banking assistant
you can say.
So user will ask a natural language
question for example uh anything maybe
and the LLM will decide which MCP tool
to be called okay and then this tool
will be executed the result will go back
to the LLM and the LLM will format into
a human readable answer so that is the
overall
sequence right perfect
so build tool schemas from NCP
This is to convert your MCP tool
metadata into OpenAI function calling.
Okay. So basically you have to bind the
tools to OpenAI right. So that tool
binding is being done here. So we have
got the tool list from your MCP server
and all those tools are now being
connected to your OpenAI.
Okay. So this is just creating a kind of
a schema. Okay. what this name of the
tool is, what the description about the
tool is and if there is any input
schema. Input schema contains the data
type of all the inputs which are
required by that tool.
Okay, what are the data type and what
are the property field properties will
mean uh the field description. These are
field descriptions and these are the
data types of each of the inputs for the
tool. Okay. So this is the format in
which the open AAI expects the tool
description. Okay. So that is the schema
that we are creating. So this will be
directly used by your OpenAI. Okay.
Now this is the AI assistant that uses
MCP bank tools to answer the customer
queries. So kind of a chatbot we are
creating. So I'm
connecting the client with the bank
server. I'm getting the list of the
tools building the schema for each of
those tools. So this is the open AI
tools along with the schema. Now this
was the raw MCP tool uh coming from the
server. All those are passed to the
above function. So now you have the
proper schema that you are going to bind
with the LLM. Okay. So where is that
binding happening here?
Okay. So this is a normal uh system
prompt and the user prompt. So this is
the system prompt and the user prompt.
Okay. You are a bank assistant. Use the
available tools to look up the real
customer data always be helpful.
Professional format monetary values in
INR.
Okay.
GPT 4.1 mini model temperature. You can
set messages as system and user
list of the tools along with the proper
schema and tool choices set to auto. So
let the model decide basically
and uh from here you are uh reading the
actual AI message. So this is your AI
message part. Okay. If you're using lang
chain then you would have uh chained
your prompt template with the LLM. Okay.
And here this is how I'm pulling out the
response.
So if the LLM wants to call the tools,
execute them via MCP. Okay. So if
assistant dot
Okay. Sorry. Uh if the LLM wants to call
then one by one you have to execute the
tools. So what is this for loop doing?
This is literally executing the tools
one by one. So for tool call in this. So
the uh LLM decides which tools to be
used. So this will be the l list of tool
calls. This will be the list of tool
calls and you are just iterating over
those tool calls and actually executing
it. Okay. So tool call.function.name
name this is the name of the actual
function underlying and then you are
connect uh you know creating the JSON
load. Now why is this needed? Because
the input to the tools will be in a JSON
RPC format. So you have to create a JSON
format. Okay. And then
call that. So calling is done here. So
here this is just for printing. The
calling is actually being done here.
Client do call tool function name and
the function arguments. So all the
function arguments will be in the JSON
format. Okay. So that JSON format is
what you are creating here.
That JSON format u input to the tool
name and the function to execute the
tool is call tool. Okay. And the result
of the tool you are also getting in the
JSON format. So whatever result you got
you extract that get into a JSON format.
So JSON.dump dump is again going to uh
get the result into a so
JSON lo uh JSON.load and JSON.dump. See
here there are two different functions.
So dumping is where you are creating a
JSON format and JSON.load is where you
are loading the JSON format. Okay. So
function dotarguments will already be in
a JSON format which you are reading here
in a way. So JSON.load load is like you
are reading a JSON data. This is already
a JSON data which you are reading using
the JSON.load and this is a data in a
different format maybe a dictionary that
you are creating as a JSON format. That
is what the JSON.dump does. So JSON.dump
dump is to write JSON data JSON data
and here you are reading the JSON
object. So that's the main difference.
Fine. And uh this is just populating
your list of messages which you can use
in the message history. Okay. So get the
final response from the LLM. So here you
have initialize your client and uh chat
completions. Okay. This can also come
from your responses API. Right now this
is the completions API that we are using
but this can be any other API
and you are getting so messages. this
list of messages you are creating here
and that you are executing here. So this
is like the step where you are doing
chain.invoke in lang chain. Okay, this
is where you are using the chain.invoke.
So final uh AI message is what you are
retriving and printing
here
and then you are testing this. So let's
do this. user, can you show me the
account details and recent transactions
for this customer? So, AI has access to
four MCP tools. So, this was all
hardcoded.
So, from there
calling the MCP tool
and then calling another MCP tool for
transactions last five. Okay. And date
time was returned. Now, the assistant,
this is the LLM's final response. Here
are the account details and recent
transactions. So these are the account
details and these are the five recent
transactions. So this is completely done
from the model side.
Okay. If you need any further details,
let me know. Fine. So is customer
eligible for this? Okay.
So in this case
we are using that prompt template. You
remember that we created a prompt
template. Okay.
Nothing here.
So we are using one of those prom
templates.
Yeah. Is not eligible at this time. Loan
has been declined due to the need to
improve the civil score this and that
despite having if you need further
assistance. Yeah. So in fact that reason
was hard-coded which is why the model
has just
replied that only. Okay.
Okay. Uh if you want you can change to a
different model that is also possible
multi-provider.
So it's exactly the same flow but with
llama 3.370 billion parameter model uh
via grock instead of your openi. So I'm
not going to repeat this. It's exactly
the same.
Finally uh the A2A part I'll take
probably 10 more minutes. Okay. So first
we are uh the business scenario which is
a multi- aent healthcare system.
Hospital network has specialized agents.
Uh one is the triage agent which
classifies the patient urgency diagnosis
agent which analyzes the symptoms and
the billing agent which will handle the
insurance claim. So three agents are
there and these three agents will do a
handoff amongst each other. You can say
these agent need to discover each other
that's most important each other's
capabilities and then delegate tasks and
that is exactly what A2A enables. Make
sense?
Okay.
So
why we are doing this? Basically again
these agent cards are like a discovery
mechanism right. So before agents can
even talk to each other, they need to
know who are you, what can you do,
where are you, what formats do you
support and kind of things. Okay.
So this agent card will answer all of
these questions technically. Yeah. And
where is it served? This is served here.
Uh this is like your robots.txt for
agents ultimately. Okay. So whichever
server it is a well-known agent slash
sorry do wellknown/ aent.json. So
whichever MCP server it is. Okay. This
is the endpoint where the agent's
discovery is made as per the A2A
protocol again. So which are the key
fields. Uh you'll find four key fields.
One is the skills or the agent skill
that you'll be using. Okay. Other one is
capabilities.
Okay. And third one is the URL where
each uh way to reach this particular
agent. Okay. Where is this agent really
hosted? And again u the input output
default modes. So these are the four
things uh you'll define in this JSON
format or JSON data usually. Okay.
So these are the other uh agents that we
are creating.
So main thing is again uh let me just
reiterate this agent cards. These enable
automated discovery. Okay. U maybe you
can think this like a coordinator agent
which can fetch all these cards from
multiple agents and even can read their
skill. Maybe decide which one to
delegate to for each of these tasks and
so on.
All this without any hard coding. So
that is the main
thing right. So let's create this one by
one. I am importing.
So first let's create the triage agent
uh hospital. This is the name of the
agent description.
This classifies the patient urgency
based on the symptoms vital signs
medical history. Routes patients to the
right department. So this is the URL I
was talking about. Okay. So each agent
will be hosted in some URL. Now you will
not be able to uh access this URL
because these URLs are
running on collab server. So uh
whichever is the remote server. So this
is the URL tied to the remote server not
your local machine. So don't open this
and see. Okay, this will not work.
However, if you are running this entire
notebook in your local machine using a
VS code, then definitely this will be
accessible. Okay,
so version number for that agent, input
and output modes, the default. So this
agent will take a text and reply as text
and then capabilities.
Does it support streaming mode? Does it
support post notification? Now these are
all standard things available in the
8way. Okay. So skills are there agent
skill agent skill. So two skills one is
to identify the urgency other is to
route to uh the query to the right
department. Okay. So I think this is
anyway clear.
So two things can be done by this agent
in a way.
Other is the diagnosis agent in this
case. Okay. So this agent can do one
thing differential diagnosis. uh that is
the id name and generates ranked the
list of possible diagnosis based on the
patient data. So this agent will give a
diagnosis. Okay. These are the tags for
this particular agent. Okay. Now why are
tags needed? So that you know this agent
can uh or other agents can do a handoff
to this agent if any of these keywords
are found or triggered you can say.
So these are the examples of outputs you
would get. Okay, these are the examples
of outputs you would get. These are the
examples of outputs you would get.
Okay, finally the billing agent. This
will handle the insurance claim
submissions, pre-authorization checks,
billing for hospital services and so on.
So
agent skill this will do the
pre-authorization check and the other
one will submit the claim end to end
right
so I've created all these agents running
at these three different locations okay
these will be three different endpoints
in in a way
so your agent cards are defined and
ready for discovery by the other agents
so these are the agents created by the
MCP server you can
Now
all I have is uh your uh
executor agent uh sorry yeah agent
exeutor. So this is where the agent
gets
really executed or you can say um main
logic is implemented here. So this is
the one which will uh receive your A2A
protocol based requests and also return
the responses through the event Q
mechanism. Fine. So we'll take one
example of this triage agent here. You
can see the entire workflow.
So this agent exeutor is
this triage agent exeutor okay is coming
from here. This is inheriting from the
exit agent executor. Okay.
And it will have the execute and cancel
methods. If you see I have done that.
Okay.
Yeah. Here and here. Cancel.
And this one is execute. Fine.
So
what is happening here?
So this agent exeutor is where your
agent logic lives as I said and uh this
handles all the protocol plumbing that
is basically HTTP or JSON RPC entire
task life cycle and stuff. Okay. So all
you have to do is just implement two
things.
One is the execute function that is what
I just now showed you which will have
the context and the event Q. And the
other one is uh so this execute as you
see here
this execute okay this will get the user
input from the context do whatever it
wants to and put the results in the
event Q right this is what has happened
and this cancel guy this cancel
this will handle the cancellation so
again it will take the context you can
see it will again take the context and
the event Q from there. So inside this
function ultimately we are calling your
triage patient. Okay.
And uh you know this also uses the GPT
4.1 uh mini model to classify the
urgency.
Okay.
So in production this could be any agent
framework doesn't matter this could be
coming from your lang graphi or ADK
doesn't matter about the tunnels the
main thing is the context
okay this context dot get user input
this gets the message text okay this is
the one which gets the message text okay
and this one
last line. Okay. Sends the response
finally.
That's the entire A2A
contract or implementation.
This is the input and this is your final
output.
Okay.
Uh
uh again now you will be launching that
server in the background thread. So this
would be running in the separate thread
in the remote machine because anyway
this entire code is running in a remote
machine. Okay as a subprocess and uh
then use the 8way client for
communication. So here these are the
starlet application and uh in memory
task store default request handler. So
these are all being used behind the
scenes to execute that client
communication. Okay. So first we will
create this server launch. Okay. And how
is that server launch done?
So this default request handler
and A2A
starlet application. So these two these
two guys. Okay.
So
yeah. So your request handler and your
A2A app is there. Uh now these are
pretty technical stuff. I I don't know
this will be easy for anyone to
understand. So
I mean this can be just too deep
technical stuff unless you know the
protocols. Uh getting a hang of all
these things can be a bit tricky.
So maybe uh what I would suggest is you
can copy this code to chart GPT and ask
it to explain line by line that would if
you're really interested to get to that.
But this actually does the entire
implementation in the actual uh
production way. Okay.
So this is launching your server in a
way. This is your server launch and the
client communication. We are going to
use the raw httpx.
So this is your triage server. Same
thing uvcon and this is your client by
httpx.
Okay, this is first going to fetch your
client sorry agent card. You see this is
going to fetch your agent card for
discovery. All of these agent sender
capabilities. Okay. And then also send
the JSON uh RPC using the message send.
Okay. A2 send message
requests.
So this is all with the patient system.
Uh I think patient uh symptoms
correct.
Yeah.
So this has almost everything. Um entire
discovery is there. Client will fetch
the agent card learns and uh that way
the agents learn what other agents can
do. Communication is there. Client sends
a message, agent will process it and
then return the result ultimately. So
let's test each of this one by one. I'm
going to test this entire communication.
Okay. So first is the discoverability.
Second is sending the request to the
agent. Okay. So these two things and
we'll uh go for three cases. Okay. Three
patient cases. One is the emergency um
cardiac thing I can say. Other is
routine headache and third one is uh
pediatric fever maybe.
Uh so we can see how these agents are
handling different urgency levels you
can say. Okay.
Okay. So this is just a for loop to run
each of those one by one.
Let's look at the results directly. I
think that will be easy for us to
understand.
So discovering the agent capabilities
agent
hospital triage agent uh version number
this has these two skills. Step two is
handling the request to the agent. So
this is the first case.
So agent response for the case one uh I
get some message ID kind of and then in
uh text this is the assessment you can
see I'll have to print this properly
uh it has gone to the emergency you can
see urgency is emergency
department is cardiology
and reasoning is also there the patient
exhibits classic signs of possible acute
myioardial infraction which is heart
attack basically.
So the first one is
done. Second one uh this is the 25 year
old female mild headache.
So again the assessment shows urgency is
routine department is general medicine
and and then we get the reasoning also.
Third one is again 8 year old high fever
is there. Uh so urgency department is
pediatics
and uh the reasoning so this is all
working definitely. Okay.
So you can also fetch the agent card
from the local server running on collab.
So here agent was fetching the agent
card by themselves and here you are
explicitly
um
reading the agent card from this
location. You are explicitly reading the
agent card from this location. Okay, you
can change it to 1 2 3 because we
created three agents. So one by one you
can change this number. Okay, and print
the entire agent card. So this is how
the entire agent card is coming up.
Okay.
So don't try to uh run this on your
local machine because this is accessible
on the uh same machine where Google
collab is running. Okay. So remember
that.
But this is the if you are wondering how
the agent card page looks like. So this
is the exact agent card hosted on that.
Okay. So this is all populated by A2A
protocol. just because we use that A2A
protocol. This entire formatting and
this JSON file format creation
everything was handled by your uh A2A
protocol framework. Okay.
So let's combine these two now um MCP
and A2A uh to give uh full closure you
can say. So business scenario e-commerce
order management. Oh, we are already 20
minutes over. Maybe another 10 minutes.
Frankly, this should end at a good note.
So there is one uh message in the chat.
My initial message to chat is used by LM
to reset the function name to be
invoked. But my input is not sufficient
for this specific tool call. So in this
case, LM will ask me for that also
you'll have to implement it direct uh in
a specific way. Okay. Um so kind of a
iterative thing. Okay. Um so that is
like a human in loop.
So the first
agent
itself is a kind of a human in loop
pattern where until all the details are
available it doesn't start the
processing pipeline
yeah
okay
so coming back to this order management
system e-commerce platform maybe a flip
card something like this MCP server is
exposing all the inventory order and
shipping tools
these agents for specialized task like
order agent, inventory agent, customer
support agent. Okay.
So
this is the kind of architecture
recommended enterprise pattern. So agent
use MCP to access tools and data and A2A
to coordinate with each other. So agents
are using MCP to access the tools
data or resources or even prompts. And
how are agents communicating with each
other? That is using the 8-way protocol.
Right?
So this is one agent. And how does it uh
connect with the inventory agent? Via
8-way protocol. And how does this agent
connect with the tool which is your MCP
server. Right? How does this agent
connect with the inventory system? Why
MCP server? I hope this is very clear.
Right? This diagram is very clear.
Okay. So, MCP server exposes all the
inventory, order tracking and the tool
um return tools you can see in this case
and the LLM powered coordinator agent
will act as the final customer support
that is what we are going to create.
So MCP is for the depth you can say you
can keep on going below for multiple MCP
tools and A2A for bread that is
basically each agent can keep laterally
talking to others. Okay.
Okay.
So
again some
simulated data is there. I'm creating my
MCP server
and these are all the tools we are
creating. I think it is all
self-explanatory now. Checking realtime
inventory. This is for tracking the
status initiate refund list all product
categories and counts. Fine.
And uh again simulated style multi-agent
coordination. So here also we are
creating the connection between client
and the server first and then uh listing
all the tools available creating a
schema and binding all those tools to
their open AI model right this is what
we did earlier also and then here I'm
just printing what all all these agents
are doing okay
so this is one example scenario for
order tracking where is my order number
also Is the prestige induction cooktop
back in stock? So, this is your
customer's query. Where is this coming?
Yeah, here.
Okay. So, you are running this entire
agent system.
So, let's see.
So, order agent
starts tracking this order number.
Inventory agent checks the inventory
with this SQ.
Okay. And then the final
response I'm getting from the LLM. So
this has been shipped and is expected to
be delivered. Regarding this, it appears
that this product is not found in our
inventory. Could you please check the
product name or provide? So basically
that is still not there in their
inventory it seems. Other one is I want
to return my Nike shoes for this order
number. They don't fit properly. So
first the coordinator agent is running
and uh it triggers the returns agent
which processes
that order ID reason does not fit items
Nike is shoes
and then
this is the final response that so and
so order ID has been initiated due to
improper fit. The pickup is scheduled
for so and so date and the refund will
be processed to your original. So this
is all done by the agents themselves. So
the supervisor agent or coordinator
agent is the main okay.
Okay. So this is all the
end to end
things. What else?
So these are again different
applications you can check. I have just
given a tentative list. Okay, I got it
from somewhere.
And uh
again there are some reusable templates
are there uh like domain organized MCP
servers, how a bank would split tools
across retail banking, loans, fraud
detection and then there are
yeah and then there are uh agent
discovery registries there. So this is
how you build a searchable index of
agents by skill tags.
Okay. And then there is a security
checklist also. Okay. Towards the end.
So you can just check.
Finally there is a cost and timing
analysis. Okay. So if you want to just
check. So MCP plus OpenAI four tools
chains. This is the cost token to total
to token usage. This is same for Grock
and A2 triage agent is making three LLM
calls three classifications is in this
model. This is a lower cost. Two tool
chains 600 tokens. So there is a saving
of $.02
per run. So that is the value
proposition here. Okay. So before MCP
um or A2A each model multiplied by each
tool call that is N cross M and after
MCP we know that the model plus the
tools. So how many model plus how many
tools that is N plus M standardized
connections you will be creating.
Okay.
So this is all we have discussed.
So this hands-on I know this is pretty
you know uh
deep okay uh may not be definitely
beginner friendly but it it is close to
production uh demonstration although
this is still a demonstration but close
to production. The only place where it
lacks is not connecting to a real
database. Otherwise, if this was
connecting to a database, then it would
have been really a production grade.
That is the only place where I see this
is lacking. But otherwise, this is
pretty much good.
Fine.
So, let me see how many are still there.
Okay. 14. So half of the strength is
gone
already dropped out it seems but okay
that's okay completely. So let me know
if there are any questions
anything which I can help you more
I think uh Karthik has informed you that
today's session is the last session
right away this one.
So if you have any more questions maybe
you can reach out to the team or you can
also reach out to me on LinkedIn. So
many of you are already connected so we
can continue our discussions there.
Um,
I have one quick question actually I did
posted in the chat as well. Um so what I
mean like the authentication like you
know how we can authenticate let's say
in in my project I'm just calling the
MCP server for example service now MCP
server I'm just calling into my agent.
So how the authentication piece work in
there?
See uh authentication is very much
similar to any rest API authentication
either you use oorthth or JWT. These are
the typical ways because ultimately this
is going over and above your API calls
only. You are ultimately doing what? get
post request only with these API
endpoints to make those
request or uh using those post or get
endpoints
which is a rest API ultimately since it
is a rest API ultimately authentication
will also go in the similar manner I
mean so whichever
company is writing the MC MCP server
code will implement the authentication
either using OOTH, JWT or maybe
there are some more protocols. I'm not
very sure but I have mostly used the JWT
and the OOTH 2.
>> Yeah, I did use JWT for other purpose.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. Got it. And the cost of the MCP is
like how with the LM model cost or it
will be different.
Let's say I'm just using service now
through my open AI.
>> So do I need to pay to open AI as well
as to service now to access their MCP?
>> It is their call basically uh if they
are so many companies are providing MCP
servers for free uh because you are
already a part of their paid tier.
Understand this is being provided as a
additional uh you know way to interact
with your own account. Ultimately
you already have having a service now
account you are already a service now
user maybe pro user. So there can be two
tiers which service now is providing a
free or a standard user and a pro user.
Standard users will not have access to
my MCP server. Only the pro users will
have access to my MCP server. That's how
most of the companies are doing. They
are differentiating
a list of clients or maybe users based
on the tier of the subscription that
they are uh with this particular MCP
server provider companies. Okay. So they
may not roll out because ultimately the
load on the MCP server will increase if
everyone tries to you know uh use the
MCP server. Okay. So they are providing
to the premium tiers or subscriptions.
That is one approach. Or for example as
I now said this AWS or Zerodha API. Now
these are ruled out to almost everyone.
Okay. Uh but again this Zerodha API is
not
free. I'm paying 400 rupees for every
month for uh this API. So I'm already
paying for API. See I'm already paying
for API access. So now I am able to get
the MCP for free but those guys who are
not paying for API probably they might
have to pay for MCP access. So either
way
>> got it point. Yeah. So it depends
because anyway you have to first
authenticate. Uh that layer of
authentication itself was implemented to
make sure that you have the right access
tier whether as a standard user or a
free user or as a pro user whether your
access tier has access to MCP server or
not.
>> Got it. Got it. Yeah.
>> That is the basic meaning of the
authentication layer. Right.
Yeah, the reason I asked actually I'm
just planning to build one project where
I want to use MCP
and uh to learn it like know little bit
more in deep. uh so that is the reason
I've just joined the
>> this notebook will give you a fair
understanding of all the process and uh
now you can use these servers like uh
sorry uh ids like cursor and windsurf
and just provide them high level context
they will write down your MCP codes
following the protocol you just have to
provide the right context
uh intention task clearly with and you
have to tell them that it has to follow
the protocol properly. Also feed
documentation pages to these protocols.
Many a times that also really helps I've
seen.
>> Got it.
>> So most people are writing these uh so
for example this code notebook is not
written by me completely. Maybe some
small here and there things have been
done but 90% it has been written by
cursor only. So somewhere you'll have to
use because I am also not a pro in this
entire protocol. Okay, this is just so
new and there are just too many things
to understand, learn. We are still
struggling with LLM architectures and
transformer models and the other end of
the spectrum is MCP protocol and A2 and
so on. So there's too many things to
focus on parallelly simultaneously. So
easiest thing is you understand your use
case, you understand what kind of prompt
works, you understand what uh platform
you want to use. Uh you have to get
comfortable with one of them. Iterating
is the key. Experimenting is the main
thing. When you have figured out that
this way consistently it works, stick to
that method. Uh that that's what I have
been doing. I would not experimentally
keep you know juggling between different
platforms between different models. If I
figure out that okay this is the way I
have done it once for subsequent I'll do
it that way only maybe that is a longer
method maybe that is not a optimal
method but I know that way works for me
that is the important thing okay rather
than anyone just saying that prashan
this can be easily done by using that
okay but I have not done using that that
is the point so if I have been doing
some things and in a specific way may
not be the optimal way but if that way
has been working good. I'll stick to it
as long as I can maybe.
So
>> solution has many many many options
right so a problem has many solutions
I'm going to say
>> can be solved in many ways
>> we can't be you know keep hopping to
different different solutions without
understanding because one way it works
means I understand that solution why it
works and how did I
you know get it to work so since I know
the nuances then for me the reliability
is much more important okay than you
know just hopping into different
solutions. So I want a reproducibility
and reliability of any solution first
may not be 100% optimal may be costlier
that's also fine may not be uh 100%
accurate that is also slightly
acceptable as a human I can always check
the accuracy and other things
but at least it has to give me
consistently what I want so that's the
point
>> yeah Pashant your class helped me a lot
actually I do not know agent
when I joined the class now I have a
fair idea what is agent
>> so I have to you know get it to as
production ready as much as possible
because this iteration the third
iteration of the agent patch that we
have done here that is you know almost
50% better than the first iteration uh
lot of new things that we did for
example this MCP um lab was non-existent
uh in the first two batches. Uh lot of
things like even uh what we did Langfuse
was not done in the first two batch that
was also completely new. Uh Crew AI
project that I did for you guys was
again done for this particular batch.
The previous CUI project was much much
simpler. Okay. And uh yeah first two
batches. So there is again and lang
graph wise also two more projects were
new for you guys. Uh we already also
discussed a lot on rag plus prompt
engineering. So prompt engineering also
there were few new notebooks and
initially also there were few new so lot
of labs were created especially for you
I'm sure right and all the resources
which I have provided to you were also
not provided to the previous batches. So
these were also completely created for
you people. Anyway, thank you. I really
enjoyed a lot interacting and learning
from you people. Um I also had to learn
a lot to teach you. So that is also a
continuous learning CI/CD pipeline for
me.
So CIC
uh continuous learning pipeline. Okay.
Thank you. Thank you and have a nice
day. Best wishes everyone for your job
search everyone. Thank you.
>> Thank you.
Thank you. Thank you Pashant.